DIRECTIONS, PROCEDURES AND JUDGE’S ROLE
In preparation for this event, you should review the following information with your event
manager and other judges:
1. Procedures
2. Performance Indicators
3. Event Situation
4. Judge Role-play Characterization
Participants may conduct a slightly different type of meeting and/or discussion with you
each time; however, it is important that the information you provide and the questions
you ask be uniform for every participant.
5. Judge’s Evaluation Instructions
6. Judge’s Evaluation Form
Please use a critical and consistent eye in rating each participant.
JUDGE ROLE-PLAY CHARACTERIZATION
You are to assume the role of owner of SUZANNE’S BRIDAL, a regional chain of stores that
specialize in bridal gowns, prom dresses and other formalwear. You have asked the marketing
manager (participant) to decide what changes should be made to store mannequins so that they
better represent real customers.
SUZANNE’S BRIDAL is the number one bridal gown retailer in the area. Each store is elegantly
decorated, has several personal attendants (sales associates) on staff and boats the largest
inventory of both designer and bargain bridal and formal apparel. Each of the 35 store locations
attracts brides-to-be and prom dress shoppers from miles away because the stores carry dresses
in sizes 0-26. Other bridal stores simply stock sample gowns in a standard size.
Each store has more than a dozen mannequins that display the various styles, brands and quality
of wedding gowns and prom dresses. Every mannequin was uniform; all 5’7’’ tall and able to
display a size 4 wedding or prom dress. The purpose of the mannequins was to give shoppers an
idea of what the dress looks like on a real person, rather than just on a hanger.
Research shows that 42% of shoppers say that mannequins influence buying decisions. A
shopper can be encouraged to try on a new style if it is displayed on a mannequin. You have
decided to replace some of the mannequins in the store. You feel that the mannequins should
represent the real shoppers and not just the uniform 5’7’’ size 4 standard. You have asked the
marketing manager (participant) to recommend changes to the mannequins that SUZANNE’S
BRIDAL uses to make them marketable to more people.
AAM-15
SAMPLE SCENARIO 2015
4
The marketing manager (participant) will present the proposed changes to you in a role-play to
take place in your office. You will begin the role-play by greeting the marketing manager
(participant) and asking to hear about his/her ideas.
During the course of the role-play you are to ask the following questions of each participant:
1. Should we announce these changes to the public?
2. Can you think of any negative consequences of making the changes?
Once the marketing manager (participant) has presented the proposed changes and has answered
your questions, you will conclude the role-play by thanking the marketing manager (participant)
for the work.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participant.

DIRECTIONS, PROCEDURES AND JUDGE’S ROLE

In preparation for this event, you should review the following information with your event
manager and other judges:
1. Procedures
2. Performance Indicators
3. Event Situation
4. Judge Role-play Characterization
Participants may conduct a slightly different type of meeting and/or discussion with you
each time; however, it is important that the information you provide and the questions
you ask be uniform for every participant.
5. Judge’s Evaluation Instructions
6. Judge’s Evaluation Form
Please use a critical and consistent eye in rating each participant.
JUDGE ROLE-PLAY CHARACTERIZATION
You are to assume the role of second-generation owner of SPERRY’S CLOTHING, an independent
clothing store. You have asked the new general manager of your store (participant) to develop a
plan to improve the profit margin of the store quickly.
SPERRY’S is an independent clothing store located in a medium-size city in the upper Midwest.
SPERRY’S features upscale, fashionable lines of clothing and accessories for younger women.
Now operated by the second generation of the Sperry family, for 43 years the store has stayed
contemporary and profitable.
You have recently hired a new general manager for the store (participant), replacing a manager
whose performance was unsatisfactory. The Sperry family has been most concerned about
declining profit margins, even though gross sales have been strong. You expect the new general
manager (participant) to develop a strategy to improve the store’s profit margin quickly.
You have asked the new general manager (participant) to present an analysis of the situation and
a preliminary plan on how best to address the problem of the shrinking profit margins.
Key information you have asked the new general manager (participant) to consider:
• A review of sales reports from the past five years shows a steady downward trend in the
maintained margin on all of your lines. The change is the greatest on trendy, seasonal
apparel.
AAM-10
State Event
4
• Vendors are increasing their pressure to buy in larger quantity early; it is difficult to fill in
stock on seasonal apparel once the season is under way.
• During the past five years, big box department stores like Kohl’s and Target have been
opening in your market area.
• You have noticed many of your customers wearing clothing purchased from catalog and online retailers such as Lands’ End and Eddie Bauer.
• Fashion trends have been changing more quickly than in the past, especially on business
apparel.
• The store enjoys a high degree of customer loyalty. Customers are very aware of the sales
that run at regular intervals throughout the year.
The new general manager (participant) is to create an analysis of the decreasing profit margins
and will develop a preliminary plan on how to improve profit margins. You have asked him/her
to present the plan to you.
The presentation should include the following:
• Possible causes of the decreasing margin
• An explanation of how overall gross sales can be steady or increasing while profit margins
decrease
• Ideas on how to control inventory levels to avoid excessive markdowns
• Specific plans for increasing profit margins
The manager (participant) will present the plan to you in a role-play to take place in your office.
You will begin the role-play by greeting the new general manager (participant) and asking to
hear about the plan.
During the course of the role-play you are to ask the following questions of each participant:
1. What do you think is the biggest cause of our decreasing profit margins?
2. Do you think having fewer promotions that include markdowns would affect the loyalty
of our customer base?
3. What other factors besides inventory control and markdowns could be affecting our profit
margin?

Once the manager (participant) has presented the plan and has answered your questions, you will
conclude the role-play by thanking him/her for the work.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participant.