DIRECTIONS, PROCEDURES AND JUDGE’S ROLE
In preparation for this event, you should review the following information with your event manager
and other judges:
1. Procedures
2. Performance Indicators
3. Event Situation
4. Judge Role-play Characterization
Participants may conduct a slightly different type of meeting and/or discussion with you
each time; however, it is important that the information you provide and the questions you
ask be uniform for every participant.
5. Judge’s Evaluation Instructions
6. Judge’s Evaluation Form
Please use a critical and consistent eye in rating each participant.
JUDGE ROLE-PLAY CHARACTERIZATION
You are to assume the role of MR./MS. JONES, a RECENT CUSTOMER who has purchased a
new sports utility vehicle 15 months prior to the meeting today. You are meeting with the
participant, who is the manager of the local car dealership, SMITH AUTO SALES. You (judge)
have requested the meeting with the manager because you are unhappy with the Wi-Fi contract for
the new vehicle.
The vehicle purchased, The SuperSport, is a midsized SUV that is promoted toward families and
adventure travelers. This vehicle has many amenities, but the service that was most attractive to
you was the free SuperSport 4G LTE Wi-Fi. The SuperSport Wi-Fi___33 boasts a strong signal,
the ability to stream movies and television on the go, connect seven devices within the one vehicle,
and an in-vehicle app to keep track of the data plan.
During the sales process, the salesperson who sold the vehicle had told you that the Wi-Fi___33
was free, but failed to disclose that the Wi-Fi___33 was free for only the first three months after
the purchase of the vehicle. However, the paperwork that you signed to complete the purchase of
the vehicle clearly identified that the free Wi-Fi___33 was temporary and a $17 monthly fee would
be added to every monthly vehicle payment. You have been using and paying for the Wi-Fi___33
services for the past 12 months. You are requesting a refund of $204. Since the fees for the WiFi___33 services are contracted out to another company and a small portion of the profit actually
goes to the car dealership, a refund is not an ideal solution for SMITH AUTO SALES.
ASM-18
District Event 1
4
You will meet with the manager (student participant) in the dealership conference room. The
manager (student participant) will begin the meeting by greeting you and will explain the business
policy in an effort to keep you as a Wi-Fi___33 customer. After your questions have been answered
by the manager, the student participant will conclude the meeting by thanking you.
During the course of the role-play you are to ask the following questions of each participant:
1. This was not my fault. Why should I have to pay if the salesperson said it was free?
a. Possible Solution: I do understand that the situation was confusing with the
salesperson and the information should have been more clear. We do have the
first three months free as a promotion for our customers to try the Wi-Fi services.
I am sorry that this was not explained more clearly to you. We will work on our
training and communication.
2. Why wasn’t I notified before the payment was added to my monthly bill?
a. Possible Solution: The information about the Wi-Fi___33 was in the paperwork
that you signed to complete the purchase of the vehicle, and then added to the
monthly bill. The notification happened at the time of purchase.
3. If you cannot give me a refund for the $204 that I paid for the Wi-Fi, what else can
you offer me to keep me as a happy customer?
a. Possible Solution: We can offer additional services that our dealership provides,
such as oil changes, tire rotations, and car detailing.
Once the participant has answered your questions, you will conclude the role-play by thanking the
participant for the work.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participant.

DIRECTIONS, PROCEDURES AND JUDGE’S ROLE
In preparation for this event, you should review the following information with your event manager
and other judges:
1. Procedures
2. Performance Indicators
3. Event Situation
4. Judge Role-play Characterization
Participants may conduct a slightly different type of meeting and/or discussion with you
each time; however, it is important that the information you provide and the questions you
ask be uniform for every participant.
5. Judge’s Evaluation Instructions
6. Judge’s Evaluation Form
Please use a critical and consistent eye in rating each participant.
JUDGE ROLE-PLAY CHARACTERIZATION
You are a NEW CLIENT, Mr./Ms. Clarkson, who is shopping for a new car at WINDEKA, a local
“Best Price” Dealership, and you have already done some pre-shopping online. You will be
meeting with the Salesperson (participant) for an initial meet and greet, and during this portion of
the meeting, they will help you understand the difference between a Best Price Dealership and a
Negotiating Dealership. In addition to helping clarify their brand promise, they will need to
interpret their dealership pricing policies and discuss the legal and ethical considerations between
the two types of dealerships.
Prior to visiting the dealership, you (judge) never knew the difference between a Best Price and a
Negotiating Dealership. For your judging knowledge, a Best Price Dealership, also known as a
“No-Haggle Dealership”, sets their prices based on cost plus mark-up. Depending on the
dealership, this could be the MSRP or a lower percentage pricing policy. Most customers feel that
negotiating prices is the worst part about buying a car. They trust the Best Price experience.
Shopping a Negotiating Dealership requires bargaining skills from everything to price, trade-in
values, financing and services. Most people are not skilled in those areas, and in many cases makes
them feel uncomfortable. Car salespeople seem to be stereotyped as unethical and pushy in order
to make their commissions, and in some cases even steering customers to different buys just to
make their commissions higher. With a no-haggle policy, salespeople are paid on volume sold
rather than dollars.
ASM -17
District Event 2
4
Some customers still try to haggle, but when a dealership advertises “No-Haggling” or “Best Price”
they need to, under the Truth in Advertising laws, stay true to their price. If caught negotiating the
price, the salesperson could get fired. Plus it is just bad business to allow a lower price for one,
and not for others. If word got out, the reputation of the dealership could be damaged.
Here are some suggestions as to what to look for regarding the Performance Indicators:
Explain key factors in building a clientele:
 Technically they should demonstrate this through their clear explanation of the types of
dealerships and sincere interest in you as the buyer. There should a strong message of
fairness to the buyer and dealership integrity. The participant should help you feel
comfortable.
Explain company selling policies:
 The participant should clearly explain the differences between the two types of dealerships.
The exceptional participant will provide details and examples of the value behind having a
no-hassle price. (Fairness, honesty, etc.)
Explain legal and ethical considerations in selling:
 The participant should address the legal aspects of Truth in Advertising, and discuss the
ethical issues of negotiating price, trade-in values, commissions, etc. They should be very
clear on the ethical value of having no-haggle pricing. The exceptional participant will
build in examples and stick to the policies.
Interpret business policies to customers/clients:
 Through the student presentation and questioning process, the judge should have a clear
vision of the Best Price Dealership policies.
Identify company's brand promise:
 The participant should clearly identify Windeka’s dealership promise of no-haggle pricing.
You (judge) have done some pre-shopping online and are waiting in the salesperson’s (participant)
office. The salesperson should initiate the role play.
ASM -17
District Event 2
5
Judge Questions/Possible Solutions
After the Salesperson (participant) has finished their presentation, you will ask the following
questions of each participant:
1. But do you really have the best price? I’ve done some shopping on line and some dealers
have better prices.
a. Possible Solution: We will need to know that it is a comparable vehicle; color, year,
mileage, options, etc. These things vary and cause the price to vary. We stand by
our prices and you can trust that your trade-in value will be fair.
2. Question: On top of the sticker price, I see a service fee on the Buyer’s Guide. What types
of services do you provide before I receive the car?
a. Possible Solution: Reconditioning the car, processing all the paper work and filing.
3. Well, if you can’t negotiate on the price, can you give me a deal on financing?
a. Possible Solution: Banks dictate the rates. And right now it’s so competitive; you
are getting the best deal possible. By State Law we could mark it up two points, but
we don’t even do that.
At the conclusion of the meeting and after the participant has answered your questions, you will
thank the participant for meeting with you.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over.