CASE STUDY SITUATION
You are to assume the roles of vice presidents of human resources and operations for MAYER
MART, a grocery store chain. The president (judge) has asked you for information to develop a
Code of Ethics in Human Resources for the company. The company has Codes of Ethics in
several other areas including customer service, marketing and vendor relations.
MAYER MART is a large grocery store chain and leading retailer in the food industry. One of the
goals for MAYER MART is to effectively, responsibly and profitably connect the store’s brand to
consumers across the southeast. The company has recently received a great deal of negative
attention for being the target of a class-action lawsuit. Some female employees have exerted
pressure on the company with the following external and internal allegations:

• Employees are paid relatively low hourly wages.
• Unions are aggressively discouraged.
• The company restricts union access to its employees.
• Employees who discuss unions are intimidated.
• Stores are closed where unions are making gains.
• Women are systematically denied promotions and equal pay.
• Company routinely contracts with firms who hire illegal immigrants.
The president (judge) of MAYER MART is concerned about the company’s image and prominent
standing in the industry. The president (judge) believes the company needs a Code of Ethics in
Human Resources to help the company move forward. The code would be shared with
employees and customers. It would be the basis for human resource decision-making for all
company stores.

The president (judge) wants you to help develop information for the Code of Ethics in Human
Resources document. The president (judge) will use the information to reassure investors about
the stores’ values, enhance the corporate reputation, and encourage loyalty within the staff. As a
starting point for developing the Code of Ethics in Human Resources, you should attempt to
answer the following questions:
• What is the purpose for creating a Code of Ethics in Human Resources?
• What ideals or goals must the company include in the Code of Ethics in Human
Resources?
• What types of issues could be solved through such a document?
• What issues should be avoided in the document?
As a team, you are to share your ideas about the Code of Ethics in Human Resources with the
president (judge) in a meeting to take place in conference room of the company’s headquarters.
The president (judge) will begin the meeting by greeting you and asking to hear your ideas. After
you have presented your ideas for a Code of Ethics in Human Resources and have answered the
president’s (judge’s) questions, the president (judge) will conclude the meeting by thanking you
for your work. 

CASE STUDY SITUATION
You are to assume the roles of a marketing management team at THE BERGMAN AUTO GROUP,
owners of six car dealerships in a 200-mile trading area. The president (judge) has asked you to
evaluate an advertising strategy being utilized by all six dealerships.
BERGMAN AUTO GROUP is a well established corporation consisting of six car dealerships in one
state covering a 200 mile trading area. Each dealership sells only one of the following car lines:
Buick, Chevrolet, Dodge, Toyota, Kia, and Hyundai. New and pre-owned cars are available at
every dealership. Each dealership offers a parts department, service department and collision
repair center. The corporation has been a leader in automotive sales. The Kia and Hyundai
dealerships are the newest members of BERGMAN AUTO GROUP, having been in operation for
three years. The remaining dealerships have all been in operation for twenty-five years or more.
Three weeks ago, the Chevrolet dealership ran a newspaper ad in the Sunday classified section.
The same ad was posted on the dealership’s website. The ad showed a picture of a new Chevy
Malibu along with the following brief copy:
 “$15,887 New 2010 Malibu, Automatic, Air Conditioning, AM/FM, 40 in Stock.”
Because of very weak economic conditions, the car buying market, for virtually any brand, has
been nonexistent. However, the ad for the Malibu has been very successful in bringing customers
into the BERGMAN CHEVROLET dealership. In fact, there has been a 28% increase in customer
traffic and sales have increased 40% since the ad began running! Yesterday, while speaking to
the Chevrolet new car manager, the president was told that some customers felt the Malibu ad
was not as straight-forward as it could have been and that they felt manipulated.
The new car manager reported that there are in fact, 40 Malibu models in the current inventory.
However, the Malibu cited in the newspaper ad carries a Manufacturers Suggested Retail Price
(MSRP) of $16,587 which has been marked down to $15,887. The tan-colored Malibu in the ad
is a very basic version, void of any other options besides the ones mentioned in the ad. The
remaining 39 Malibus in the BERGMAN CHEVROLET inventory are “loaded with options” and
carry an average MSRP of $21,793. The new car manager further stated that ads similar to the
one for the Malibu have been running for all of the other dealerships in THE BERGMAN AUTO
GROUP.
The president (judge) has asked to meet with your management team to discuss the advertising
strategy currently in use by THE BERGMAN AUTO GROUP. Specifically, the president (judge)
would like your team to address the following:
• the goals and objectives of placing ads such as the one for the Malibu,
• the benefits and consequences to THE BERGMAN AUTO GROUP and its customers by
continuing to run ads such as the Chevrolet ad,
• the consequences to THE BERGMAN AUTO GROUP and its customers of modifying the ads,
and
• recommendations and rationale addressing the current advertisement.
BLTDM-10
State Event
3
You will present to the president (judge) of THE BERGMAN AUTO GROUP in a meeting to take
place in the president’s (judge’s) office. The president (judge) will begin the meeting by greeting
you and asking to hear your ideas. After you have presented and have answered the president’s
(judge’s) questions, the president (judge) will conclude the meeting by thanking you for your
work. 