JUDGE’S INSTRUCTIONS
You are to assume the role of president of MAYER MART, a grocery store chain. You have asked
the vice presidents of human resources and operations (participant team) for information to
develop a Code of Ethics in Human Resources for the company. The company has Codes of
Ethics in several other areas including customer service, marketing and vendor relations.
MAYER MART is a large grocery store chain and leading retailer in the food industry. One of the
goals for MAYER MART is to effectively, responsibly and profitably connect the store’s brand to
consumers across the southeast. The company has recently received a great deal of negative
attention for being the target of a threat of a class-action lawsuit. Some female employees have
exerted pressure on the company with the following external and internal allegations:

• Employees are paid relatively low hourly wages.
• Unions are aggressively discouraged.
• The company restricts union access to its employees.
• Employees who discuss unions are intimidated.
• Stores are closed where unions are making gains.
• Women are systematically denied promotions and equal pay.
• Company routinely contracts with firms who hire illegal immigrants.
As president of MAYER MART, you are concerned about the company’s image and prominent
standing the food industry. You believe that a company Code of Ethics in Human Resources is
needed to help company move forward. The code would be distributed and shared with
employees and customers. It would be the basis for business and human resource decisions for
all stores within the company. .
You want the vice presidents of human resources and operations (participant team) to help
develop information for the Code of Ethics in Human Resources document. You will use the
information to reassure investors about the stores’ values, enhance the corporate reputation, and
encourage loyalty within the staff. As a starting point for developing the Code of Ethics in
Human Resources, the vice presidents (participants) should attempt to answer the following
questions:
• What is the purpose for creating a Code of Ethics in Human Resources?
• What ideals or goals must the company include in the Code of Ethics in Human
Resources?
• What types of issues could be solved through such a document?
• What issues should be avoided in the document?
The vice presidents (participant team) will present their information for the Code of Ethics in
Human Resources to you in a meeting to take place in the conference room of the company’s
headquarters. You will begin the meeting by greeting the participants and asking to hear their
ideas.
BLTDM-10
State Event
5
After the vice presidents of human resources and operations (participant team) have presented
their information, you are to ask the following questions of each participant team:
1. What does the term cultural sensitivity mean in business?
Answer: In the context of this situation, cultural sensitivity could include recognizing that
employees represent diverse cultures. The company should develop human resource
policies that recognize cultural differences to the extent possible without affecting the
business goals.
2. Can a company oppose unions and still deal ethically with its employees?
Answer; Yes, a company can develop a Code of Ethics in Human Resources that opposes
unions and stills treats its employees fairly.
3. Is profit ever more important than ethical behavior by business?
Answer: A company must return a profit to stay in business. Often the choice is between
short-term profit and the long-term benefit of being seen as an ethical employee. The
better decision is always the long-term benefit.
Once the vice presidents of operations and human resources (participant team) have answered
your questions, you will conclude the meeting by thanking them for their work.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participants. 

JUDGE’S INSTRUCTIONS
You are to assume the role of president of THE BERGMAN AUTO GROUP, owners of six car
dealerships in a 200-mile trading area. You have asked your management team (participant team)
to evaluate an advertising strategy being utilized by all six dealerships.
BERGMAN AUTO GROUP is a well established corporation consisting of six car dealerships in one
state covering a 200 mile trading area. Each dealership sells only one of the following car lines:
Buick, Chevrolet, Dodge, Toyota, Kia, and Hyundai. New and pre-owned cars are available at
every dealership. Each dealership offers a parts department, service department and collision
repair center. The corporation has been a leader in automotive sales. The Kia and Hyundai
dealerships are the newest members of BERGMAN AUTO GROUP, having been in operation for
three years. The remaining dealerships have all been in operation for twenty-five years or more.
Three weeks ago, the Chevrolet dealership ran a newspaper ad in the Sunday classified section.
The same ad was posted on the dealership’s website. The ad showed a picture of a new Chevy
Malibu along with the following brief copy:
 “$15,887 New 2010 Malibu, Automatic, Air Conditioning, AM/FM, 40 in Stock.”
In spite of a very weak economy, the ad for the Malibu has helped produce a 28% increase in
customer traffic and sales have increased 40%! Yesterday, while speaking to the Chevrolet new
car manager, you were told that some customers felt the Malibu ad was not as straight-forward as
it could have been and that they felt manipulated.
The new car manager reported that there are in fact, 40 Malibu models in the current inventory.
However, the Malibu cited in the newspaper ad carries a Manufacturers Suggested Retail Price
(MSRP) of $16,587 which has been marked down to $15,887. The tan-colored Malibu in the ad
is a very basic version, void of any other options besides the ones mentioned in the ad. The
remaining 39 Malibus in the BERGMAN CHEVROLET inventory are “loaded with options” and
carry an average MSRP of $21,793. The new car manager further stated that ads such as the one
for the Malibu have been running for all six dealerships in THE BERGMAN AUTO GROUP.
You have asked to meet with your management team (participant team) to discuss the advertising
strategy currently in use by THE BERGMAN AUTO GROUP. Specifically, you would like your
management team (participant team) to address the following:
• the goals and objectives of placing ads such as the one for the Malibu,
• the benefits and consequences to THE BERGMAN AUTO GROUP and its customers by
continuing to run ads such as the Chevrolet ad,
• the consequences to THE BERGMAN AUTO GROUP and its customers of modifying the ads,
and
• recommendations and rationale addressing the current advertisement.

The management team (participant team) will present their recommendations and rationale to
you in a meeting to take place in your office. You will begin the meeting by greeting the
management team (participant team) and asking to hear their ideas.
BLTDM-10
State Event
5
After the management team (participant team) has made their presentation, you are to ask the
following questions of each participant team:
1. Doesn’t a business have a responsibility to its investors or stockholders to do whatever it
legally can do to increase revenue?
2. During difficult economic times what marketing element do you believe is most
important in keeping a car dealership afloat? Please explain.
Once the management team (participant team) has answered your questions, you will conclude
the meeting by thanking them for their work.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participants.