You (Student) are to assume the role of a Marketing/Branding Consultant at Northwoods
Marketing Group (NMG). You will be meeting with the Mayor of Durann, (judge) Mr./Miss
Kelly Willkom, to showcase a new promotional campaign. NMG is a full-service agency with a
vast experience covering the full spectrum of numerous industries including: manufacturing,
agriculture, health care, insurance, tourism, finance, service, government and consumer. NMG
delivers world class creative ideas with forward thinking brands. NMG specializes in what it
takes to successfully launch a new product or makeover, and re-launch a brand in a way that
helps it achieve its full potential.
Your current client is the city of Durann. Durann has a population of approximately 10,000
people. The median age in the city is 40 years. 55% is under the age of 45. The gender makeup
of the city is 52.1% male and 47.9% female. It has a small town atmosphere. It is located on a
major highway and has always seen a great amount of tourism in the summer and winter months.
In summer, visitors enjoy the hiking trails, camping, fishing, ATVing, and other summer
recreation activities. In winter, visitors come for the snowmobiling, ice fishing, snow shoeing,
and dog sledding, etc. It once was considered the “gateway to the north”. Durann has seen a
tremendous drop in vacationers in the last five years. Visitors are simply driving through and
heading to larger northern cities with a larger population.
Your client, the City of Durann, would like you to develop a promotional campaign that is
positioned to travelers and Northwood’s enthusiasts. You will be meeting with the Mayor,
Mr./Miss Kelly Willkom, your client, from the City of Durann (Judge) to present your new ideas
in their office.
The student will begin the presentation with the appropriate statement.

You are to assume the role of a MARKETING CONSULTANT at CREATIVE PRESS, a full
service marketing agency specializing in brand development. Creative Press services many
businesses throughout the area to reach company goals. Creative Press prides itself in listening to
its clients where they build the strategic framework business brands need to be grounded in
something ownable and positioned for success. Creative Press specializes in promotion, public
relations, social media, direct marketing, and digital media.
Your client you are currently working with is ABC Sports. ABC Sports is located in a city of
60,000 people and has been in business for over 25 years. ABC carries a full line of sporting goods
for all seasons and prides itself in its hometown customer service and customer needs. ABC also
has special services such as ski rentals and skate sharpening for in the winter months. Over the
past five years ABC Sports has encountered a steady decline in sales due to larger retailers such
as Wal-Mart and Dicks Sporting Goods as well as online giants such as Amazon. The Owner of
ABC Sports (judge) realizes that something needs to be done otherwise ABC Sports will have to
close its doors.
The owner has asked you to come up with a rebranding strategy and has asked you to determine
best on how to promote ABC Sports on a limited budget. The owner wants its current customers
and potential customers to be reminded why ABC Sports is a better choice than the other retail
giants.
You will present your ideas to the owner in a role-play to take place at Creative Press. The
marketing consultant will begin the role-play by greeting you and asking to hear your ideas. After
you have presented your ideas and have answered the owner’s questions, they will conclude the
role-play by thanking you for your work.