JUDGE ROLE-PLAY CHARACTERIZATION
The student is to assume the role of a marketing/branding consultant at Northwoods Marketing
Group (NMG). You will be meeting with the Mayor of Durann, (judge) Mr./Miss Kelly
Willkom, to showcase a new promotional campaign. NMG is a full-service agency with a vast
experience covering the full spectrum of numerous industries including: manufacturing,
agriculture, health care, insurance, tourism, finance, service, government and consumer. NMG
delivers world class creative ideas with forward thinking brands. NMG specializes in what it
takes to successfully launch a new product or makeover, and re-launch a brand in a way that
helps it achieve its full potential.
The student's client is the city of Durann. Durann has a population of approximately 10,000
people. The median age in the city is 40 years. 55% is under the age of 45. The gender makeup
of the city is 52.1% male and 47.9% female. It has a small town atmosphere. It is located on a
major highway and has always seen a great amount of tourism in the summer and winter months.
In summer, visitors enjoy the hiking trails, camping, fishing, ATVing, and other summer
recreation activities. In winter, visitors come for the snowmobiling, ice fishing, snow shoeing,
and dog sledding, etc. It once was considered the “gateway to the north”. Durann has seen a
tremendous drop in vacationers in the last five years. Visitors are simply driving through and
heading to larger northern cities with a larger population.
BSM-16
District Event 1
4
You (the judge), Mr(s). Willkom, Mayor of Durann, would like the student to develop a
promotional campaign that is positioned to travelers and Northwood’s enthusiasts. The student
will be meeting with you (Judge) to present their new ideas in your office.
During the course of the role-play you are to ask the following questions of each participant:
1. Which element of promotional mix do you feel is the most effective/important part of
your campaign? Why?
a. Possible Solution: Answers will vary. Elements of the promotional mix are listed
Types of promotion/Promotional Mix/Plan
 Advertising
 Personal Selling
 Sales Promotion (contests, rebates, sweepstakes, etc)
 Public Relations (Social Media-celebrity endorsers)
 Direct Marketing
2. What do you feel is the biggest opportunity in rebranding this city?
a. Possible Solution: Answers will vary. Possibly –increases awareness/visibility
3. How will you feel will be the most effective way to position Durann?
a. Possible Solution: Answers will vary. Strategies are listed below
Product positioning = the image the product/service projects.
Types of strategies used to position products:
 Positioning by price and quality
 Positioning by features and benefits
 Positioning in relation to the competition
 Positioning in relation to other products/services
What do you see is the most effective method? Why?
After the marketing/branding consultant (student) has answered your (judge’s) questions, you
(judge) will conclude the meeting by thanking him/her for his/her time.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participant.

JUDGE’S INSTRUCTIONS
DIRECTIONS, PROCEDURES AND JUDGE’S ROLE
In preparation for this event, you should review the following information with your event manager
and other judges:
1. Procedures
2. Performance Indicators
3. Event Situation
4. Judge Role-play Characterization
Participants may conduct a slightly different type of meeting and/or discussion with you
each time; however, it is important that the information you provide and the questions you
ask be uniform for every participant.
5. Judge’s Evaluation Instructions
6. Judge’s Evaluation Form
Please use a critical and consistent eye in rating each participant.
JUDGE ROLE-PLAY CHARACTERIZATION
The student is to assume the role of a marketing consultant at Creative Press, a full service
marketing agency specializing in brand developing. Creative Press services many business
throughout the area to reach company goals. Creative Press prides itself in listening to its clients
where they build the strategic framework businesses brands need to be grounded in something
own-able and positioned for success. Creative Press specializes in promotion, public relations,
social media, direct marketing, and digital media.
ABC Sports is located in a city of 60,000 people and has been in business for over 25 years. ABC
carries a full line of sporting goods for all seasons and prides itself in its hometown customer
service and customer needs. ABC also has special services such as ski rentals and skate sharpening
for in the winter months. Over the past five years ABC Sports has encountered a steady decline in
sales due to larger retailers such as Wal-Mart and Dicks Sporting Goods as well as online giants
such as Amazon. The Owner of ABC Sports (judge) realizes that something needs to be done
otherwise ABC Sports will have to close its doors.
You are to assume the role of MR./MS. GREENBAR, the OWNER of CREATIVE PRESS, and
have asked the student to come up with a rebranding strategy. In addition, you have asked the
student how to determine best on how to promote ABC Sports on a limited budget. Keep in mind
you want your current customers and potential customers to be reminded why ABC Sports is a
better choice than the other retail giants. The student will present his/her ideas to you in a role-
BSM-18
District Event 1
4
play to take place at your business, Creative Press. The student will begin the role-play by greeting
you and present their ideas to you. After he/she has presented their ideas and have answered your
questions, you will conclude the role-play by thanking the student for their work.
During the course of the role-play you are to ask the following questions of each participant:
1. How can you tell if your ideas are effective?
a. Possible Solutions: Maintain customer base (repeat customers) and obtain new
customers. Remain consistent and possibly increase sales. Get customer feedback
and make improvements where necessary.
2. Will we have to lower prices to compete?
a. Possible Solutions: Not necessarily. The key is to provide a better overall customer
experience which starts with overall customer service. Maybe they will have to
have a better web/social media presence, etc. They could also increase the amount
of promotions they have, etc. A wide interpretation of answers can be accepted.
3. What if we were working on a limited budget? What areas of your promotional plan could
you cut?
a. Possible Solutions: Answers will vary. Cut advertising costs and create more of a
social presence. Utilize all social media platforms, etc. Focus on Public Relations
and Direct Marketing. Focus on the personal selling aspect.
Once the participant has answered your questions, you will conclude the meeting by thanking the
participant for their work.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participant.