JUDGE’S INSTRUCTIONS
You are to assume the role of buyer for MURPHY DEPARTMENT STORE, an upscale department
store that carries high-end suits for men and women. You have hired a sales specialty team
(participant team) to develop a plan to improve customer service.
MURPHY DEPARTMENT STORE, known for carrying high-end designer suits for men and women,
has been in business for 50 years in the same upscale suburban location. You are concerned
about the selling strategies used at the store. Increased competition and outlet malls carrying
many designer brands have cut into the store’s sales.
You have decided to have unidentified customers observe and record the service provided by the
store’s sales associates. Most of the sales associates did not actively greet customers to determine
their needs. Many of the sales associates asked customers if they needed help and backed off
when customers responded, “No thanks, I’m just looking.” You believe that drastic changes must
occur for the store to improve sales and customer relationships. Sales associates are paid an
hourly wage plus a commission on sales of merchandise.
You have hired the sales specialty team (participant team) to develop a plan that will improve the
customer service provided by sales associates. The sales specialists (participant team) must
describe their ideas for improving customer service by discussing the following topics:
• training/development
• building a clientele
• product knowledge
• suggestion selling
The sales specialty team (participant team) will present their plan to you in meeting to take place
in your office. You will begin the meeting by greeting the participants and asking to hear their
ideas.
After the sales specialty team (participant team) has concluded their presentation, you are to ask
the following questions of each participant team:
1. How important is it for upscale clothing stores to use a personalized approach with
customers?
2. What sales promotions can MURPHY DEPARTMENT STORE use for our best customers?
3. Why should our company invest money to train sales associates about outstanding
customer service?
Once the sales specialty team (participant team) has answered your questions, you will conclude
the meeting by thanking them for their work.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participants. 

JUDGE’S INSTRUCTIONS
You are to assume the role of president of NEW EXPRESSIONS, a leading specialty store known
for being a brand-builder. You have asked the directors of product development (participant
team) to develop a report describing the advantages and disadvantages of buying from foreign
sources. You also want the directors (participant team) to recommend a course of action for
future merchandise planning.
In the summer of 1969 man took his first walk on the moon and the first NEW EXPRESSIONS store
was opened in Los Angeles. Today, NEW EXPRESSIONS is one of the largest specialty retailers in
the country with a mission to make it easy for its customers to express their personal styles with
its trendy, fashion-forward merchandise. Every day the retailer looks for new ways to connect
with its customers, to provide value to its shareholders and to make a positive contribution in the
communities where it does business. The company wants to make emotional connections with its
customers through inspiring designs, unique stores experiences and compelling marketing.
You envision offering private label merchandise that will be specifically produced according to
the specifications of NEW EXPRESSIONS. The private label must have original fashion flair and be
made with only high-quality materials and workmanship. As mass merchandisers have captured
a larger share of retail sales, you believe private label goods will help the chain increase its sales
volume and maintain its competitive edge. If this vision is to move forward, the company will
have to consider contracting with foreign manufacturing plants, instead of buying domestically
produced merchandise only. Although offshore sourcing may give larger profits to the company,
you know there are risks associated with offshore sourcing that need to be considered.
In order to make an informed marketing and management decision, you have asked the directors
of product development (participant team) to develop a report outlining the advantages and
disadvantages of offshore sourcing. At the conclusion of the report, the directors (participant
team) are to recommend a course of action. You have asked them to consider the following when
developing the report and recommendation:
• cost/markups
• image/customers
• timelines/shipping
• buyers/buying trips
• communication
• legal issues/economic factors
• financial risks
• diversity/cultures
The directors of product development (participant team) will present the report and course of
action to you in a meeting to take place in your office. You will begin the meeting by greeting
the participants and asking to hear about their ideas.
After the directors (participant team) have presented their information, you are to ask the
following questions of each participant team:
BTDM-10
State Event
4
1. Why is there generally more profit in private label goods?
2. How does advance buying benefit both the retailer and the manufacturer?
3. What are U.S. manufacturers doing to encourage retailers to source domestically?
Once the directors (participant team) have answered your questions, you will conclude the
meeting by thanking them for their work.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participants. 