CASE STUDY SITUATION
You are to assume the role of sales specialty team that has been hired by MURPHY DEPARTMENT
STORE, an upscale department store carrying high-end designer suits for males and females. The
store’s buyer (judge) has hired you to develop a plan to improve customer service.
MURPHY DEPARTMENT STORE is known for carrying high-end designer suits for men and women.
The retailer has been in business for 50 years in the same upscale suburban location. The store’s
buyer (judge) is concerned about the selling strategies used at the store. Increased competition
and outlet malls that carry many designer brands have cut into the store’s sales.
The buyer (judge) decided to have unidentified customers observe and record the service
provided by the store’s sales associates. Most of the sales associates did not actively greet
customers to determine their needs. Many of the sales associates asked customers if they needed
help and backed off when customers responded, “No thanks, I’m just looking.” The buyer for
MURPHY DEPARTMENT STORE (judge) believes that drastic changes must occur for the store to
improve sales and customer relationships. Sales associates are paid an hourly wage plus a
commission on sales of merchandise.
Your sales specialty team has been hired by MURPHY DEPARTMENT STORE’s buyer (judge) to
develop a plan that will improve the customer service provided by sales associates. You must
describe your ideas for improving customer service by discussing the following topics:
• training/development
• building a clientele
• product knowledge
• suggestion selling
You will present your plan to the buyer (judge) in a meeting to take place in the buyer’s (judge’s)
office. The buyer (judge) will begin the role-play by greeting you and asking to hear your
analysis and recommendation. After you have presented your ideas and have answered the
buyer’s (judge’s) questions, the buyer (judge) will conclude the role-play by thanking you for
your work. 

CASE STUDY SITUATION
You are to assume the roles of directors of product development at NEW EXPRESSIONS, a leading
specialty store known for being a brand-builder. The president of NEW EXPRESSIONS (judge) has
asked you to develop a report describing the advantages and disadvantages of buying from
foreign sources. The president (judge) wants a domestic-versus-offshore sourcing
recommendation for future merchandise planning.
In the summer of 1969 man took his first walk on the moon and the first NEW EXPRESSIONS store
was opened in Los Angeles. Today, NEW EXPRESSIONS is one of the largest specialty retailers in
the country, with a mission to make it easy for its customers to express their personal styles with
its trendy, fashion-forward merchandise. Every day the retailer looks for new ways to connect
with its customers, to provide value to its shareholders and to make a positive contribution in the
communities where it does business. The company wants to make emotional connections with its
customers through inspiring designs, unique stores experiences and compelling marketing.
The president’s (judge’s) vision is to offer private label merchandise that will be specifically
produced according to the specifications of NEW EXPRESSIONS. The private label must have
original fashion flair and be made with only high-quality materials and workmanship. As mass
merchandisers have captured a larger share of retail sales, the president (judge) believes private
label goods will help the chain increase its sales volume and maintain its competitive edge. If
this vision is to move forward, the company will have to consider contracting with foreign
manufacturing plants instead of buying domestically produced merchandise only. Although
offshore sourcing may give larger profits to the company, the president (judge) knows that the
risks associated with offshore sourcing must be evaluated.
In order to make an informed marketing and management decision, the president (judge) has
asked you to develop a report outlining the advantages and disadvantages of offshore sourcing.
At the conclusion of the report, your team is to recommend a course of action. You are to
consider the following when developing the report and recommendation:
• cost/markups
• image/customers
• timelines/shipping
• buyers/buying trips
• communication
• legal issues/economic factors
• financial risks
• diversity/cultures
You will present your report and recommendation to the president (judge) in a meeting to take
place in the president’s (judge’s) office. The president (judge) will begin the meeting by greeting
you and asking to hear your ideas. After you have made a recommendation and have answered
the president’s (judge’s) questions, the president (judge) will conclude the meeting by thanking
you for your work. 