JUDGE’S INSTRUCTIONS
DIRECTIONS, PROCEDURES AND JUDGE’S ROLE
In preparation for this event, you should review the following information with your event
manager and other judges:
1. Procedures
2. 21st Century Skills and Performance Indicators
3. Event Situation
4. Judge Role-play Characterization
Participants may conduct a slightly different type of meeting and/or discussion with you
each time; however, it is important that the information you provide and the questions
you ask be uniform for every participant.
5. Judge’s Evaluation Instructions
6. Judge’s Evaluation Form
Please use a critical and consistent eye in rating each participant.
JUDGE ROLE-PLAY CHARACTERIZATION
You are to assume the role of a business manager for MILKY WAY DESIGNS, an online jewelry
store. You will meet with the business owner (participant) to discuss an analysis and
recommendation for a change in supplier.
MILKY WAY DESIGNS jewelry is based on planets, stars, constellations, moons and other
astronomical bodies. The business owner (participant) started the company four years ago and
sells items online.
While the business owner (participant) hand designs and creates all jewelry pieces, the business
uses two vendors’ merchandise to complete the jewelry pieces. After much research and
consideration, the business uses the company CHAIN WHOLESALERS for the varying lengths of
necklace chains for the pieces and the company PIECES & MORE for the necklace clasps and
earring backs needed to complete the pieces. Both CHAIN WHOLESALERS and PIECES & MORE
have been pleasant to work with and important parts of the supply chain.
Over the last month, MILKY WAY DESIGNS has been receiving negative customer feedback on
the company website. Several customers have commented that the necklace clasps are cheap and
do not stay closed, resulting in the necklace falling off and the pendant coming off the chain. At
first the business owner (participant) thought it was simply user-error, but after a month of
continued complaints, the business owner (participant) contacted PIECES & MORE.
Your representative at PIECES & MORE claims that the necklace clasps in your most recent
shipment are indeed the very same necklace clasps you have always received. The representative
suggested that a higher priced necklace clasp, of better quality, might solve your customers’
problems. The higher priced necklace clasp would force MILKY WAY DESIGNS to raise prices on
its jewelry items by $3/necklace and the company would still be doing business with the same
supplier of the defective clasps.
Your CHAIN WHOLESALERS representative was happy to detail the available necklace clasps and
earring backs available, all lower quality than PIECES & MORE offerings, which is the reason the
owner (participant) did not choose them for clasps and backs when starting the business.
A third vendor, BITS, has both good quality necklace clasps and earring backs available, but the
vendor’s prices are quite expensive. In order to be profitable, the prices would need to increase
by $5/piece.
The business owner (participant) must analyze the current supply chain, the three vendor options
and make a recommendation. The analysis must include business risks and pricing decisions.
The participant will present an analysis and recommendation to you in a role-play to take place
in your office. You will begin the role-play by greeting the participant and asking to hear about
his/her ideas.
During the course of the role-play you are to ask the following questions of each participant:
1. Should we communicate any of these decisions to our customers? Why or why not?
2. Besides pricing, what can affect our profit?
3. How will we know if we made the right decision?
Once the business owner (participant) has presented a recommendation and has answered your
questions, you will conclude the role-play by thanking the business owner (participant) for the
work.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participant.

JUDGE’S INSTRUCTIONS
DIRECTIONS, PROCEDURES AND JUDGE’S ROLE
In preparation for this event, you should review the following information with your event
manager and other judges:
1. Procedures
2. 21st Century Skills and Performance Indicators
3. Event Situation
4. Judge Role-play Characterization
Participants may conduct a slightly different type of meeting and/or discussion with you
each time; however, it is important that the information you provide and the questions
you ask be uniform for every participant.
5. Judge’s Evaluation Instructions
6. Judge’s Evaluation Form
Please use a critical and consistent eye in rating each participant.
JUDGE ROLE-PLAY CHARACTERIZATION
You are to assume the role of general manager of FARM TO BED, an up-and-coming online
business that sells bedroom linens created by materials grown by local farmers. You feel the
company would benefit from joining social media and want the founder and owner’s
(participant’s) advice on how to use social media to build the FARM TO BED brand.
FARM TO BED uses all locally farmed cotton, wool and yarns to create bedroom curtains, sheets
and blankets. Farms across the region sell their cotton, wool and specially made yarns for
material use. The business only uses organic dyes for coloring. In the beginning, the owner
(participant) was able to turn the raw materials into bedroom creations independently, but now
that the company has grown, over 100 employees work in the company warehouse to keep up
with demand.
FARM TO BED sells items online, in the store front near the warehouse and at area farmer’s
markets. Online sales have reached an all-time high and now customers must wait 30 days from
the time an order is placed until delivery.
You feel that FARM TO BED should have a presence on social media. You think that social media
would help build the FARM TO BED brand and be extremely useful in customer service.
You want the owner (participant) to decide which social media platforms would be the best fit
for FARM TO BED and to explain his/her reasoning. You also want the owner (participant) to
determine what content will be showcased on the social media platform(s) chosen and how
customers will be encouraged to interact.
The participant will present ideas to you in a role-play to take place in your office. You will
begin the role-play by greeting the participant and asking to hear about his/her ideas.
During the course of the role-play you are to ask the following questions of each participant:
1. What is the best way to find followers for our social media?
2. How often should we post on social media? Will the frequency differ between
platforms? Will the content differ between platforms?
3. How will we know if social media has helped build our brand?
Once the owner (participant) has presented ideas and has answered your questions, you will
conclude the role-play by thanking the owner (participant) for the work.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participant.