JUDGE’S INSTRUCTIONS
You are to assume the role of an entrepreneurial consultant meeting with business partners
(participant team) that operate CUSTOM POTTERY, a small business located in a city with 300,000
people. You have recommended that the business partners (participant team) begin allowing and
encouraging customer reviews. The business partners (participant team) will meet with you to
explain how they will encourage reviews and how the reviews can be used as a marketing
technique.
CUSTOM POTTERY allows customers to choose designs, colors, and patterns for pottery pieces.
While the company does sell completed pieces, the majority of sales come from customers that
want help designing their own piece. Customers first select a pottery piece, then can either
choose a design or pattern from a CUSTOM POTTERY catalog or can submit a personal design.
After two days, the finished pottery is available for pick-up.
When a customer places an order, an employee helps the customer choose the design and colors
for the pottery, gathers the customer’s contact information, and collects payment in full. Once
the pottery is finished, the customer is alerted by both phone and email for pick-up. Detailed
instructions on caring for the pottery is included in the packaging at pick-up.
CUSTOM POTTERY has been in business for three years. The company operated the first two
years without a physical store location. During that time, CUSTOM POTTERY sold pieces at local
craft fairs, farmers markets and through the company website. While a physical store location
opened last year, CUSTOM POTTERY still has a presence at craft fairs and farmers markets.
CUSTOM POTTERY has a company website, a Facebook page and an Instagram account. The
company uses those platforms for marketing the business, displaying the unique pottery pieces
available and showcasing customers’ creations.
The business partners (participant team) have met with you to discuss marketing techniques
since they have very little money in their budget to allocate to marketing. You have
recommended an inexpensive marketing technique: allow customers to market the company by
providing reviews.
You want the business partners (participant team) to determine how they can encourage both past
and current customers to write customer reviews. You want the business partners’ (participant
team’s) ideas on how to encourage reviews, where reviews can be posted, if reviews should be
responded to, and how customer reviews act as a marketing technique.
The business partners (participant team) will present ideas to you in a meeting to take place in
your office. You will begin the meeting by greeting the business partners (participant team) and
asking to hear about their ideas.
After the business partners (participant team) have presented ideas, you are to ask the following
questions of each participant team:
ETDM-19
Sample
4
1. How can we make these reviews positively impact our image and enlarge our customer
base?
2. How can the reviews be incorporated into our current marketing functions?
3. What type of incentives would be appropriate to offer customers who post reviews?
Once the business partners (participant team) have answered your questions, you will conclude
the meeting by thanking them for their work.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participants

JUDGE’S INSTRUCTIONS
You are to assume the role of a venture capitalist interested in investing in HIGH CHAIR
DELIVERY, a start-up that will deliver hand-made, organic baby food to customers in a large
metropolitan area. You have asked the two business partners that created the start-up (participant
team) to incorporate social responsibility methods into their proposal to be approved for
financing.
HIGH CHAIR DELIVERY will be the third baby food delivery service in the area. The city is one of
the largest in the country, with close to three million residents, so the market is not oversaturated
with like companies. HIGH CHAIR DELIVERY has differentiated itself from the other two baby
food delivery services by allowing customers no minimums when ordering. The other companies
have a three-meal minimum.
The baby food made by HIGH CHAIR DELIVERY will be all organic and handmade; featuring
high-quality grains, fruits, vegetables and proteins for a growing child. The food is pureed, finely
chopped or ground to an age-appropriate consistency and texture. The consistency and texture of
the baby food will change as the child matures and has additional teeth. The target market for
HIGH CHAIR DELIVERY is affluent parents that live in the city with a strong desire for the
healthiest food choices for their young children.
You have sampled all of the company’s products, like that customers do not need a minimum
order and feel that the start-up is worth the investment. However, you feel that to see greater
success and make HIGH CHAIR DELIVERY stand out, the start-up needs to add a component of
social responsibility.
The major city serviced by HIGH CHAIR DELIVERY has numerous neighborhoods that are
considered food deserts. This means there are no stores in the vicinity that sell fresh fruits,
vegetables, meats or other food items. The residents of these neighborhoods rely on corner stores
that sell a limited supply of canned and bagged food items, but nothing fresh. The majority of the
residents in these food desert neighborhoods are low-income and may not be able to afford HIGH
CHAIR DELIVERY.
You want the business partners (participant team) to add a social responsibility goal to the
proposal surrounding the food desert neighborhoods in your service area. You want the business
partners (participant team) to determine:
• How HIGH CHAIR DELIVERY can service the low-income residents with babies living in
food desert neighborhoods
• Reasons including service to low-income residents in food deserts is important
• Reasons why social responsibility is important
• How social responsibility will affect the image and positioning of HIGH CHAIR DELIVERY
After the business partners (participant team) have presented ideas, you are to ask the following
questions of each participant team:
1. Can we publicize our social responsibility acts without seeming arrogant?
ETDM-18
Sample
4
2. Will our social responsibility initiatives change our target market?
Once the business partners (participant team) have answered your questions, you will conclude
the meeting by thanking them for their work.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participants.