CASE STUDY SITUATION
ETDM-19
Sample
2
You are to assume the roles of business partners that operate CUSTOM POTTERY, a small business
located in a city with 300,000 people. An entrepreneurial consultant (judge) has recommended
that you begin allowing and encouraging customer reviews. You will meet with the consultant
(judge) to explain how you will encourage reviews and how the reviews can be used as a
marketing technique.
CUSTOM POTTERY allows customers to choose designs, colors, and patterns for pottery pieces.
While the company does sell completed pieces, the majority of sales come from customers that
want help designing their own piece. Customers first select a pottery piece, then can either
choose a design or pattern from a CUSTOM POTTERY catalog or can submit a personal design.
After two days, the finished pottery is available for pick-up.
When a customer places an order, an employee helps the customer choose the design and colors
for the pottery, gathers the customer’s contact information, and collects payment in full. Once
the pottery is finished, the customer is alerted by both phone and email for pick-up. Detailed
instructions on caring for the pottery is included in the packaging at pick-up.
CUSTOM POTTERY has been in business for three years. The company operated for the first two
years without a physical store location. During that time, CUSTOM POTTERY sold pieces at local
craft fairs, farmers markets and through the company website. While their first physical store
location opened last year, CUSTOM POTTERY still has a presence at craft fairs and farmers
markets.
CUSTOM POTTERY has a company website, a Facebook page and an Instagram account. The
company uses those platforms for marketing the business, displaying the unique pottery pieces
available and showcasing customers’ creations.
You have met with an entrepreneurial consultant (judge) to discuss marketing techniques since
you have very little money in your budget to allocate to marketing. The consultant (judge) has
recommended an inexpensive marketing technique: allowing customers to market the company
by providing reviews.
The consultant (judge) wants you to determine how you can encourage both past and current
customers to write customer reviews. The consultant (judge) wants your ideas on how to
encourage reviews, where reviews can be posted, if reviews should be responded to, and how
customer reviews act as a marketing technique.
You will present your ideas to the consultant (judge) in a meeting to take place in the
consultant’s (judge’s) office. The consultant (judge) will begin the meeting by greeting you and
asking to hear your ideas. After you have presented your ideas and have answered the
consultant’s (judge’s) questions, the consultant (judge) will conclude the meeting by thanking
you for your work.

CASE STUDY SITUATION
You are to assume the roles of business partners that have created HIGH CHAIR DELIVERY, a startup that will deliver hand-made, organic baby food to customers in a large metropolitan area. The
venture capitalist interested in investing (judge) has asked you to incorporate social
responsibility methods into your proposal to be approved for financing.
HIGH CHAIR DELIVERY will be the third baby food delivery service in the area. The city is one of
the largest in the country, with close to three million residents, so the market is not oversaturated
with like companies. HIGH CHAIR DELIVERY has differentiated itself from the other two baby
food delivery services by allowing customers no minimums when ordering. The other companies
have a three-meal minimum.
The baby food made by HIGH CHAIR DELIVERY will be all organic and handmade; featuring
high-quality grains, fruits, vegetables and proteins for a growing child. The food is pureed, finely
chopped or ground to be an age-appropriate consistency and texture. The consistency and texture
of the baby food will change as the child matures and has additional teeth. The target market for
HIGH CHAIR DELIVERY is affluent parents that live in the city with a strong desire for the
healthiest food choices for their young children.
The venture capitalist (judge) has sampled all of the company’s products, likes that customers do
not need a minimum order and feels that your start-up is worth the investment. However, the
venture capitalist (judge) feels that for greater success and to make HIGH CHAIR DELIVERY stand
out, the start-up needs to add a component of social responsibility.
The major city serviced by HIGH CHAIR DELIVERY has numerous neighborhoods that are
considered food deserts. This means there are no stores in the vicinity that sell fresh fruits,
vegetables, meats or other food items. The residents of these neighborhoods rely on corner stores
that sell a limited supply of canned and bagged food items, but nothing fresh. The majority of the
residents in these food desert neighborhoods are low-income and may not be able to afford HIGH
CHAIR DELIVERY.
The venture capitalist (judge) wants you to add a social responsibility goal to your proposal
surrounding the food desert neighborhoods in your service area. The venture capitalist (judge)
wants you to determine:
• How HIGH CHAIR DELIVERY can service the low-income residents with babies living in
food desert neighborhoods
• Reasons including service to low-income residents in food deserts is important
• Reasons why social responsibility is important
• How social responsibility will affect the image and positioning of HIGH CHAIR DELIVERY
You will present your social responsibility information to the venture capitalist (judge) in a
meeting to take place in the venture capitalist’s (judge’s) office. The venture capitalist (judge)
will begin the meeting by greeting you and asking to hear your ideas. After you have presented
your ideas and have answered the venture capitalist’s (judge’s) questions, the venture capitalist
(judge) will conclude the meeting by thanking you for your work.