JUDGE’S INSTRUCTIONS
DIRECTIONS, PROCEDURES AND JUDGE’S ROLE
In preparation for this event, you should review the following information with your event
manager and other judges:
1. Procedures
2. Performance Indicators
3. Event Situation
4. Judge Role-play Characterization
Participants may conduct a slightly different type of meeting and/or discussion with you
each time; however, it is important that the information you provide and the questions
you ask be uniform for every participant.
5. Judge’s Evaluation Instructions
6. Judge’s Evaluation Form
Please use a critical and consistent eye in rating each participant.
JUDGE ROLE-PLAY CHARACTERIZATION
You are to assume the role of Manager of the Deli/Bakery at Spend Less Food Store. You have
asked the Assistant Manager (participant) to come up with ideas on how the grocery store can
promote the recent hire of an award winning baker. The new baker is known for baking a variety
of cakes, breads, pies, and other items for special occasions. Spend Less Food Store does an
excellent catering business for meetings, parties, weddings, and more. As Manager of the
Deli/Bakery, you wish to promote the baking services to increase business and to improve the
store’s baking reputation.
Spend Less Food Store is located in a small town of 15,000 people. There are two other large
grocery stores in the community that offer catering services with food and baking. There is also a
very successful specialized catering company called Randy’s Catering that offers food and a
location to host meetings, parties, and weddings; this location can seat up to 600 people. This
catering company specializes in the catering of food; however, they contract out all baked goods
for the events.
Though Spend Less Food Store does a great catering business with food, their catering business
for baking is very small. Since the store is doing the catering with food for many occasions, they
also want to let customers know they offer baking services as well. Spend Less Food Store also
wants to build a relationship with Randy’s Catering to perform some of their baked good needs.
FMS-15
District Event 2
4
As Manager of the Deli/Bakery, you are interested in knowing how Spend Less Food Store can
promote their baking and catering business on a limited budget. You have asked the Assistant
Manager (participant) to come up with ideas on how the store can promote this award winning
baker through the use of traditional advertising, social media, and in-store displays to increase
the catering business. Also, you are interested in finding ways to develop a strong relationship
with Randy’s Catering as they host over 200 occasions annually.
The participant will make his/her presentation to you in a role-play to take place in your office.
You will begin the role-play by greeting the participant and asking to hear his/her ideas.
During the course of the role-play you are to ask the following questions of each participant:
1. What type of advertising or publicity can be used with this campaign with a limited
budget?
Possible answers:
 News article in the local paper promoting the hire of the award winning baker.
 Facebook Page promoting catering services and emails/texts/tweets to customers
who have already done catering with Spend Less Food Store.
 In-store displays of the bakers products with a poster/sign promoting catering
services.
 Invite potential customers to taste testing.
 As a member of the chamber, brochures are provided at the chamber of
commerce and local hotels.
 Use the electronic marquee that cars see when driving by.
2. Provide specific examples on how we can develop a positive relationship with
Randy’s Catering?
Possible answers:
 Provide Randy with samples of products to taste.
 Provide one free major cake or party arrangement with baking.
 Provide Randy with a 5% finder’s fee for all work brought to the store.
3. If Randy’s Catering does not want to develop a relationship, how do we still keep
positive communications open with the business?
Possible answers:
 Inform Randy’s Catering that you are available to assist him with problem
situations.
 Team up on large catering events. Spread your business to Randy’s Catering to
show good faith.
Once the assistant manager (participant) has answered your questions, you will conclude the
role-play by thanking the assistant manager (participant) for the work.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participant.

JUDGE’S INSTRUCTIONS
DIRECTIONS, PROCEDURES AND JUDGE’S ROLE
In preparation for this event, you should review the following information with your event
manager and other judges:
1. Procedures
2. Performance Indicators
3. Event Situation
4. Judge Role-play Characterization
Participants may conduct a slightly different type of meeting and/or discussion with you
each time; however, it is important that the information you provide and the questions
you ask be uniform for every participant.
5. Judge’s Evaluation Instructions
6. Judge’s Evaluation Form
Please use a critical and consistent eye in rating each participant.
JUDGE ROLE-PLAY CHARACTERIZATION
You are to assume the role of store manager of FOOD GIANT, a large super market. You have
asked the produce manager (participant) to develop a strategy for maintaining high-quality
produce.
FOOD GIANT is a large supermarket with a well-established customer base. You have always
worked to maintain a positive image for the store and serve your customers in the best way
possible.
In the last few weeks, an increasing number of customers have been returning produce that is not
fresh. You and your produce manager (participant) have discussed this trend and are concerned
about expired food not being removed from the shelves in a timely manner. Although stock
workers are careful about keeping the shelves well maintained, they have not been diligent in
removing nearly expired produce from the shelves.

FOOD GIANT has a 50% markdown policy on produce that will expire within three days. Expired
produce is thrown out on the date of expiration. In your review of the policy, the produce
manager (participant) has found that a large amount of food is being discarded on the date of
expiration. The produce manager (participant) has indicated that the store’s code dating and
maintenance of fresh produce may not be meeting the store’s demands.
 FMS-10
State Event

4
You have asked the produce manager (participant) for ideas on maintaining an up-to-date
inventory of produce, determining better buying decisions and perhaps setting new reduction
prices. You have asked the produce manager (participant) to consider including donations to two
food banks located in the community.
The produce manager (participant) will present the ideas to you in a role-play to take place in
your office. You will begin the role-play by greeting the produce manager (participant) and
asking to hear his/her ideas.
During the course of the role-play you are to ask the following questions of each participant:
1. Are our buying decisions reasonable based on the expiration dates? If we continue to
mark produce down, is this taking away from the image of the store?
2. Who sets the expiration date on produce? Is it necessary to have the same dating code
for all produce?
3. If we donate to the food banks on the date of expiration, will that cause us extra
liability if the produce is not used on that date?
After the produce manager (participant) has presented the ideas and has answered your
questions, you will conclude the role-play by thanking the produce manager (participant) for the
ideas.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participant. 