JUDGE’S INSTRUCTIONS
You are to assume the role of president of NEW EXPRESSIONS, a leading specialty store known
for being a brand-builder. You have asked the directors of product development (participant
team) to develop a report describing the advantages and disadvantages of buying from foreign
sources. You also want the directors (participant team) to recommend a course of action for
future merchandise planning.
In the summer of 1969 man took his first walk on the moon and the first NEW EXPRESSIONS store
was opened in Los Angeles. Today, NEW EXPRESSIONS is one of the largest specialty retailers in
the country with a mission to make it easy for its customers to express their personal styles with
its trendy, fashion-forward merchandise. Every day the retailer looks for new ways to connect
with its customers, to provide value to its shareholders and to make a positive contribution in the
communities where it does business. The company wants to make emotional connections with its
customers through inspiring designs, unique stores experiences and compelling marketing.
You envision offering private label merchandise that will be specifically produced according to
the specifications of NEW EXPRESSIONS. The private label must have original fashion flair and be
made with only high-quality materials and workmanship. As mass merchandisers have captured
a larger share of retail sales, you believe private label goods will help the chain increase its sales
volume and maintain its competitive edge. If this vision is to move forward, the company will
have to consider contracting with foreign manufacturing plants, instead of buying domestically
produced merchandise only. Although offshore sourcing may give larger profits to the company,
you know there are risks associated with offshore sourcing that need to be considered.
In order to make an informed marketing and management decision, you have asked the directors
of product development (participant team) to develop a report outlining the advantages and
disadvantages of offshore sourcing. At the conclusion of the report, the directors (participant
team) are to recommend a course of action. You have asked them to consider the following when
developing the report and recommendation:
• cost/markups
• image/customers
• timelines/shipping
• buyers/buying trips
• communication
• legal issues/economic factors
• financial risks
• diversity/cultures
The directors of product development (participant team) will present the report and course of
action to you in a meeting to take place in your office. You will begin the meeting by greeting
the participants and asking to hear about their ideas.
After the directors (participant team) have presented their information, you are to ask the
following questions of each participant team:
BTDM-10
State Event
4
1. Why is there generally more profit in private label goods?
2. How does advance buying benefit both the retailer and the manufacturer?
3. What are U.S. manufacturers doing to encourage retailers to source domestically?
Once the directors (participant team) have answered your questions, you will conclude the
meeting by thanking them for their work.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participants. 

You are to assume the roles of small business advisors. A client (judge) who is talented in sewing wants
more information about the basics in starting a business.
The client (judge) is talented in creating clothing, providing tailoring services and adding
embellishments to existing apparel and wants to open a business to provide their services to the public.
The client (judge) is also considering asking a friend to be a partner in the business and has explored the
idea of operating the business out of the friend’s garage.
The client (judge) has requested the following information:
• What it means to be an entrepreneur
• Types of business ownership including sole proprietorship, partnership and S corporations
• Why the client’s (judge’s) and the friend’s current financial information is needed
• Overhead/operating costs associated with the venture
• Insurance needs
• Why a budget is necessary and how budgets work
You will present the information to the client (judge) in a meeting to take place at the office. The client
(judge) will begin the meeting by greeting you and asking to hear the information. After you have
presented the information and have answered the client’s (judge’s) questions, the client (judge) will
conclude the meeting by thanking you for your work.