JUDGE’S INSTRUCTIONS
You are to assume the role of vice president for FIRST GOAL BANK. You have asked two of the
bank’s financial planners (participant team) to prepare a presentation for parents at a local middle
school about finances to include goal setting. You feel like this will be a great opportunity for the
bank to gain new clients.
You have put together topics that should be discussed during the presentation to the middle
school parents. The topics to discuss are as follows:
• Financial needs (e.g. college, retirement, wills, insurance, etc.).
• Setting financial goals
• The four types of financial-services providers
• Considerations in selecting a financial-service provider
• The four types of investments
• The concept of insurance
• The need to save and invest
The financial planners (participant team) will present the information to you in a small training
room at FIRST GOAL BANK. Once the financial planners (participant team) have finished the
presentation you will ask the following questions of each participant group:
1. Why should kids as young as middle schoolers open a savings account?
2. What is the difference between a checking account and savings account?
Once the financial planners (participant team) have answered your questions, you will conclude
the meeting by thanking them for their work.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participants.
 FTDM-17
SAMPLE
4
SOLUTION
1. Explain the nature of financial needs (e.g. college, retirement, wills, insurance, etc.,)
One aspect of developing a financial plan is to know the difference between your needs and your
wants. Furthermore, you need to prioritize your needs and wants as you set your financial goals.
As you do so, keep in mind your attitude toward money and ask yourself if something is more
important to spend money on now or to save for the future.
Having choices with money comes with a cost and with risk. Opportunity cost is the tradeoff of
giving something up when choosing one thing over another. Financial risks that you should
consider include the risks of inflation, rising or falling interest rates, loss of income, and
liquidity. Liquidity is the ability to convert assets into cash without loss of value.
2. How to Set Financial goals:
There are 5 main steps to setting financial goals:
1. Identify your financial goals – Set your goals based on short term(0-3 years), midterm (3-
7) and long term goals (over 7 years). Prioritize your goals in the need of importance.
2. Calculate your net worth – Determine the amount of resources that you own (assets) and
the amount of money that you owe (liabilities).
3. Identify your sources of income – Look at the resources that you have to achieve your
goals and plan for expenses that may come up. With this you will now need to actually
create a working monthly budget.
4. Assess your resources – Assess all of your other resources. Savings and insurance
policies that can protect you if any unplanned events occur. Making sure that you set
aside a fund that covers at least three to six months of basic living expenses to offset such
events as sick leave, unemployment or unexpected bills.
5. Save for goals – Identify the gaps between your financial goals and all your available
resources. Now, you can start combining the two together.
3. Describe four types of financial-services providers (participants can describe any four):
Commercial Banks – Banks that take in deposits from people who want to save their money or
keep in a safe place.
Thrifts - they specialize in savings accounts and real estate financing.
Credit Unions – Financial institutions that are formed by and organized group of people with a
common bond such as the one that exist between teachers, government or industry employee, or
even people living in a certain geographical locations. They are not-for-profit cooperatives that
are owned by its members.
 FTDM-17
SAMPLE
5
Insurance Companies – Designed to protect individuals and businesses from risk. They are
considered financial providers because they invest the money they collect as premiums from
their policy holders. They can also sell investments like annuity.
Mutual Funds – Professional managed Investment Company that pools money from investors
and invest the money into stocks, bonds, or other securities. Mutual funds allow people with
small amounts of money to diversity their investments.
Pension funds – workplace plans designed to provide income when employees retire.
Alternative Financial Providers – Check cashing outlets, payday loan stores, pawnshops and
money-transfers stores which normally have above-average fees and interest rates.
4. Discuss considerations in selecting a financial-service provider:
There are several considerations that you can take to choose a financial-service provider:
Security of funds – Make sure that any bank or credit union is insured by the Federal Insurance
Corporation (for banks) or by the National Credit Union Association (for credit unions).
Fees – Make sure that the organization charges realistic fees and that the institution does not
charge for any basic account transactions (fees like monthly maintenance fees, per check fees,
fees for talking to a representative).
Ease of deposit – Make sure that the institution offers locations or online options which enable
you to deposit freely.
ATM Fees – If you use an ATM frequently make sure that the fees are realistic and do not
charge you high fees.
Interest rates – Interest rates work both ways: the rate to receive on your deposit and the rate the
bank charges you when you borrow money. Find an account that pays higher-than-average
interest on your deposits and charges lower-than-average interest on debts.
Availability of Funds – Look for banks that give an early release of active duty pay deposits.
Customer service – Make sure you when you have a problem or question, you can get in touch
with someone fairly quick and easy.
Branch Availability – Access to an area that you can actually walk in and obtain quick service.
5. Explain four types of Investment (participant can explain any four)
Bonds – Can be group under the general category called fixed-income securities. When you
purchase a bond, you are lending out money to a company or government. In return, they agree
to give you interest on your money and eventually pay you back the money you lent out.
 FTDM-17
SAMPLE
6
Stocks – Purchase a part of the business in fact you can be entitled to vote at the stockholders
meeting and allows you to receive any profits that the companies allocates to its owners. These
profits are known as dividends.
Mutual funds – collection of stocks and bonds. When you buy a mutual fund, you are pooling
your funds together with a number of investors which enables you to pay a professional manager
to select specific securities for you. Mutual funds are usually set up with a specific strategy in
mind.
Options – This is a financial derivative that represents a contract sold by one party (the option
writer) to another party (the option holder). The contract offers the buyer the right, but not the
obligation, to buy a security or other financial asset at an agreed-upon price during a certain
period or certain time or date.
Futures – Futures are financial contracts obligating the buyer to purchase an asset or the seller to
sell an asset, such as a commodity (gold, etc.) at a predetermined future date and price.
Real Estate Investments – purchasing a home or real estate investment trust (a pool commercial
properties such as apartment complexes, hospitals, office buildings, timer land, warehouses,
hotels or shopping mall)
6. Describe the concept of insurance
Insurance is an economic institution that allows the transfer of financial risk from and individual
to a pooled group of risk by means of a two-party contract. The insurance party obtains a
specified amount of coverage against an uncertain event for a smaller but certain payment.
Insurers may offer fixed, specific coverage or replacement coverage which takes into account the
cost of putting the event back to its condition before the loss occurred.
7. Explain the need to save and invest
Many people have future financial goals or needs (such as buying a car, having money set aside
for special occasions or emergencies, buying a house or living comfortable in retirement) that
can be planned or unplanned. Because there may be a gap between the person’s income and cost
of the planned or unplanned need, people need to save and invest so they are not in financial
trouble.
 FTDM-17
SAMPLE
7
ANSWERS TO JUDGE’S QUESTIONS
1. Why should kids as young as middle schoolers open a savings account?:
Answers will vary but should touch upon personal finance, fiscal responsibility and saving for
furture spending such as: a car, college, etc.
2. What is the difference between a checking account and savings account?
a. Checking Account – offers easy access to your money for daily transactions and helps keep
your money secure. Customers can use a debit card or checks to pay bills.
b. Savings Account – A savings account allows you to receive interest on the funds you have
saved for future needs. Interest rates can be compounded on a daily, weekly, monthly or annual
basis. Savings account can vary from service fees, interest rates and interest calculations.

JUDGE INSTRUCTIONS
DIRECTIONS, PROCEDURES AND JUDGE ROLE
In preparation for this event, you should review the following information with your event manager and
other judges:
1. Participant Instructions, 21st Century Skills and Performance Indicators
2. Case Study Situation
3. Judge Characterization
Allow the participants to present their ideas without interruption, unless you are asked to
respond. Participants may conduct a slightly different type of meeting and/or discussion with you
each time; however, it is important that the information you provide and the questions you ask be
uniform for every participant team.
4. Judge Evaluation Instructions and Judge Evaluation Form
Please use a critical and consistent eye in rating each participant team.
JUDGE CHARACTERIZATION
You are to assume the role of a client meeting with small business advisors (participant team). You are
talented in sewing want more information about the basics in starting a business.
You are talented in creating clothing, providing tailoring services and adding embellishments to existing
apparel and want to open a business to provide your services to the public. You are considering asking a
friend to be a partner in the business and operating the business out of the friend’s garage.
You have requested the following information from the small business advisors (participant team):
• What it means to be an entrepreneur
• Types of business ownership including sole proprietorship, partnership and S corporations
• Why your and your friend’s current financial information is needed
• Overhead/operating costs associated with the venture
• Insurance needs
• Why a budget is necessary and how budgets work
The participant team will present information to you in a role-play to take place at the office. You will
begin the role-play by greeting the participant team and asking to hear the information.
During the course of the role-play, you are to ask the following questions of each participant team:
1. If the business is successful, what other expenses might arise?
2. Are there any methods to predict if my business will be successful?
Once the small business advisors (participant team) have presented information and has answered your
questions, you will conclude the role-play by thanking the small business advisors (participant team) for
the work.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participant.