JUDGE’S INSTRUCTIONS
DIRECTIONS, PROCEDURES AND JUDGE’S ROLE
In preparation for this event, you should review the following information with your event
manager and other judges:
1. Procedures
2. Performance Indicators
3. Event Situation
4. Judge Role-play Characterization
Participants may conduct a slightly different type of meeting and/or discussion with you
each time; however, it is important that the information you provide and the questions
you ask be uniform for every participant.
5. Judge’s Evaluation Instructions
6. Judge’s Evaluation Form
Please use a critical and consistent eye in rating each participant.
JUDGE ROLE-PLAY CHARACTERIZATION
The participant is to assume the role of an intern in the Sales and Marketing Department of a
large resort property located in a popular tourism area. You Peyton Collins (the judge) are the
owner of Tahotel. Tahotel is privately owned by you and is a third generation business since
1912. You (judge) were born and raised in the industry. You (judge) realize that sales and
marketing practices have changed dramatically in the past decade and feel it is time to move into
the 21st Century. You have asked your Intern (participant) to prepare an explanation on how to
use social media to achieve a fresh branded image of the property. You know what social media
and apps are, but are not knowledgeable of how they work for business, costs, and time involved
incorporate and use these tools.
You have read about real time marketing and how providing content on an ongoing basis
dominates the hospitality industry but you are out of touch with these new marketing tools.
Tahotel still values the impact of traditional marketing, but feels real time marketing must take
place on a regular basis and you must incorporate guest-generated content, especially via social
media. Some elements to listen for, but are not limited to, include Facebook, Twitter, Instagram,
and Pinterest.
You are also looking to explore how to use your property’s Facebook as a supplement to the
website with the option for guests to contact hotel staff and make reservations through their
Facebook account. You also read about an App that pulls information about the property from
HLM-16
District Event 1
4
the hotel’s website onto its Facebook page but have no idea what that means. The participant
should address linking an app to your Facebook page.
You’ve heard about video campaigns on social media, but don’t know what that refers to and
you think this could be expensive. You want some insight on this venue. You have noticed an
increase in interactions with the hotel, seeing shared personal experiences by guests with friends
and family and you want clarification of its value in promoting the property and guest
engagement. The participant should explain how, with today’s technology, producing videos is
relatively easy, inexpensive and could be done in-house. They may even suggest encouraging
guests to upload videos of their experiences.
Finally, you know the days of “walk-in” reservations are dwindling and need to know about
mobile apps. Again, listen for a discussion on the use of apps in making reservations.
The participant’s task is to help you, the owner, understand the impact of social media as a
branding and promotional tool and help you distinguish between social media options and
purposes.
You (judge) will begin the role-play by greeting the intern and asking to hear their ideas about
social media promotions for the hotel. Remember, you are not a social media expert and are
asking the Intern to shed some light on how these things work.
During the course of the role-play you are to ask the following questions of each participant:
1. If people post things on their Facebook about us, and it appears on our Facebook page,
what should we do if the post is negative?
a. Possible Solution: It can be removed for the hotel’s page, but not from their
personal page. Post a response addressing the post. Create positive relations
through responses.
2. If we add reservation abilities to our Facebook account and get an app for making
reservations, will that be time consuming and will we need to hire more people just to
manage that?
a. Possible Solution: Besides a little initial training, this feature would not be any
more time consuming than accepting the reservations in traditional means and/or
processing online reservations.
3. How is all this posting on social media going to increase the visibility of our branding
image?
a. Possible Solution: The ability to share experiences and amenities is what today’s
traveler seeks. An historic (3rd generation) property needs branding for today’s
traveler.
HLM-16
District Event 1
5
Possible solutions related to the Performance Indicators:
 When explaining how emerging technology for telecommunications services enhance the
guest experience, participant should discuss mobile devices, computer access to internet
booking sites, the use of apps and/or reservation systems that process app reservations.
 In describing the impact of a person’s social media brand on the achievement of
organizational objectives the participant should discuss the uses of Facebook, Twitter,
Instagram, Pinterest and others to project images of the property and the guest
experiences.
 The participant should distinguish between using social media for business and personal
purposes by describing posting by individuals versus posting by the hotel. This would
include hotel produced videos and/or guest produced videos that are uploaded.
After the intern (participant) has presented the information and answered your (judge’s)
questions, you (judge) will end of the role-play by thanking the intern (participant) for their
work.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participant.

JUDGE’S INSTRUCTIONS
DIRECTIONS, PROCEDURES AND JUDGE’S ROLE
In preparation for this event, you should review the following information with your event
manager and other judges:
1. Procedures
2. 21st Century Skills and Performance Indicators
3. Event Situation
4. Judge Role-play Characterization
Participants may conduct a slightly different type of meeting and/or discussion with you
each time; however, it is important that the information you provide and the questions
you ask be uniform for every participant.
5. Judge’s Evaluation Instructions
6. Judge’s Evaluation Form
Please use a critical and consistent eye in rating each participant.
JUDGE ROLE-PLAY CHARACTERIZATION
You are to assume the role of restaurant manager at LAKESIDE, the hotel restaurant located on
the property of MADDER LAKE INN, a full-service hotel located in a city of 200,000 people. You
have expressed concerns to the hotel’s general manager (participant) about the number of open
tables at the hotel’s restaurant and want the general manager’s (participant’s) help in creating
marketing strategies that will bring in local community members to the restaurant.
MADDER LAKE INN is located right on Madder Lake and offers guests easy access to hiking trails
along with canoe and kayak rentals. Along with a lounge and a coffee shop, the hotel offers a full
service restaurant, LAKESIDE. LAKESIDE is situated right on the banks of Madder Lake and
offers indoor seating in an elegant dining room and outdoor seating on a beautiful patio. The fullservice menu offers midscale prices on locally grown and sourced items.
At first, guests shied away from dining at LAKESIDE due to the midscale prices. When asked,
guests stated they would rather go off property than paying higher prices on meals on-site. To
help remedy the situation, each guest at MADDER LAKE INN receives a discount while dining at
LAKESIDE. When charging to a guest room or presenting a room key, the guest receives 20% off
the bill. This discount has led to an increase in the number of guests dining at LAKESIDE,
however the dining room consistently remains only half full.
HLM-17
SAMPLE
4
You are proud of LAKESIDE, but understand that many community members simply do not even
consider LAKESIDE as an option for dining out because it is affiliated with the hotel. You feel
that if more people in the community knew about the beautiful location and locally grown menu
items, they would consider dining at a hotel restaurant.
You want the general manager’s (participant’s) help in creating marketing strategies that will
bring in local community members to dine at LAKESIDE. You want to know the specific market
the general manager (participant) will target, strategies used to get them to dine at LAKESIDE and
any unique selling propositions LAKESIDE can use to build a local clientele.
The general manager (participant) will present ideas to you in a role-play to take place in the
manager’s (participant’s) office. You will begin the role-play by greeting the participant and
asking to hear about his/her ideas.
During the course of the role-play you are to ask the following questions of each participant:
1. What do we do if the restaurant has a wait time, and our hotel guests can’t get tables?
2. If we are only used to having the restaurant half full, what preparations need to be
made to accommodate more patrons?
3. Why is it important that we notify all hotel staff of your ideas?
Once the general manager (participant) has presented ideas and has answered your questions,
you will conclude the role-play by thanking the general manager (participant) for the work.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participant.