JUDGE’S INSTRUCTIONS
DIRECTIONS, PROCEDURES AND JUDGE’S ROLE
In preparation for this event, you should review the following information with your event manager
and other judges:
1. Procedures
2. Performance Indicators
3. Event Situation
4. Judge Role-play Characterization
Participants may conduct a slightly different type of meeting and/or discussion with you
each time; however, it is important that the information you provide and the questions you
ask be uniform for every participant.
5. Judge’s Evaluation Instructions
6. Judge’s Evaluation Form
Please use a critical and consistent eye in rating each participant.
JUDGE ROLE-PLAY CHARACTERIZATION
You are to assume the role of MR./MRS. RICHARDS, THE HOTEL MANAGER for SUNSET
RESORT. You have asked the human resources manager (student participant) to create strategies
to improve customer service.
SUNSET RESORT is a family-oriented, full-service resort located in a tourist community situated
on one of the great lakes. Your 250-room resort has a history of a high occupancy rate, being
located on the beach near a popular state park. With the trend of online resources such as
Airbnb.com, there have been more options for family vacations including the rental of homes and
cottages. As a result, your occupancy rate during the past two years has decreased by 18%.
Customer surveys indicate that your hotel guests are not totally pleased with their stay. Guest
complaints range from lack of kid-friendly option in the restaurant to slow service at the hotel
desk. Most complaints are about poor customer service. Many guests are unhappy about rooms
not being available for check-in at 3 p.m. There have also been complaints that there are not
adequate personnel to help with water rentals.
You have asked the human resources manager to create a training session to improve employee
performance and customer service. You have also asked the human resource manager to share
their ideas for a meaningful recognition program for employees who offer the most outstanding
HRM-18
District Event 1
4
customer service and discuss ways in which the resort can identify if service has improved as a
result of this training and incentive recognition program.
The human resources manager will present his/her ideas to you in a meeting to take place in your
office. You will begin the meeting by greeting the human resources manager and asking to hear
his/her ideas.
During the course of the role-play you are to ask the following questions of each participant:
1. How can we instill pride in our employees to provide outstanding customer service?
a. Possible Solution: When we train them, we include them in the brainstorming
process and use their examples. We will also empower them to go above and beyond
by rewarding them with a gift certificate to the restaurant for most outstanding
customer service comment card/nomination.
2. How do we determine the best customer service offered by our competition?
a. Possible Solution: There are several ways to do this. One is to research customer
comments on popular websites such as: www.tripadvisor.com and other
reservation site such as www.expedia.com. Another way is to send employees, as
part of their training or award, to similar hotels in other similar vacation
destinations.
3. How will your suggestions help us retain our best employees?
a. Possible Solution: Employees that feel empowered to enhance customer service and
create great experiences are more likely to enjoy their work and be more engaged.
Engaged employees are less likely to leave their jobs. They will take pride in the
success of their company. Offering training will take away some of the frustration
that they may have from negative encounters. I would also incorporate the “Fish
Philosophy” in my training sessions to encourage employees to have fun while they
work because it will make the experience better for customer and employees will
be more satisfied. Finally, acknowledgement of great customer service will make
for a better work environment, reducing turnover.
Once the human resource manager (participant) has presented a plan for improving customer
service and has answered your questions, you will conclude the meeting by thanking them for the
work.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participant.

JUDGE’S INSTRUCTIONS
DIRECTIONS, PROCEDURES AND JUDGE’S ROLE
In preparation for this event, you should review the following information with your event manager
and other judges:
1. Procedures
2. Performance Indicators
3. Event Situation
4. Judge Role-play Characterization
Participants may conduct a slightly different type of meeting and/or discussion with you
each time; however, it is important that the information you provide and the questions you
ask be uniform for every participant.
5. Judge’s Evaluation Instructions
6. Judge’s Evaluation Form
Please use a critical and consistent eye in rating each participant.
JUDGE ROLE-PLAY CHARACTERIZATION
You are to assume the role of Mr./Ms. Friday, the CEO at WOODSIDE INTERIORS, a company
that processes interior wood paneling. One of your department managers (participant) has
expressed concern because employees have heard rumors about job changes, possible layoffs, and
pay reductions. Morale in the department is at an all-time low. This concern has been expressed
by several managers in other departments so you have asked the department manager (participant)
to develop a plan to motivate employees to achieve high performance standards and keep a good
attitude in the midst of all the changes.
You have asked the department manager (participant) to take the following questions into
consideration when developing a multifaceted plan:
 How can you communicate with employees difficult situations while protecting individual
employees and keeping morale positive?
 How much transparency is possible to facilitate trust while keeping employees positively
motivated?
 What can you do to keep employees motivated in difficult times?
 How can you gain employee engagement and commitment in a time in which the company
is having difficulty protecting all positions?
 What could you do as a manager to support employees that are displaced through layoffs
or pay reductions?
HRM-17
District Event 2
4
The department manager (participant) will present to you in a meeting to take place in your office.
You will begin the meeting by greeting the department manager (participant) and asking to hear
about his/her ideas.
Judge Questions/Possible Solutions
During the course of the meeting you are to ask the following questions of each participant:
1. How will you deal with the backlash of any layoffs in your department?
Possible solution: While layoffs are extremely difficult there are many pointers in the
industry that have helped make this easier for management staff. Some of these pointers
include:
 Offer staff management training to offer a well thought out plan and how to deal
with human hurt
 Make sure that there is a policy in writing for management and employee support
 Show empathy. Recognize that layoffs are painful. Offer as much support as
possible
 Remain objective
 Be upfront and communicate clearly and honestly
 Treat employees with respect
 Ensure resilience and look to future
 Re-recruit remaining staff by being visible and engaged in communication
2. How will you assess the morale of the employees as we go through this difficult time?
Possible Solution: It will be difficult to get positive feedback from employees that are let
go through exit surveys, but surveys could be done of managers and employees to measure
plan goals. Regular meetings should be held with managers to assure that they are
comfortable with the plan and have the necessary support. Managers should record any
concerns and feedback from employees. While there will be turnover, turnover can also be
measured to see if layoffs are detrimental to employee security.
After he/she has shared their suggestions and have answered your questions, you will conclude the
meeting by thanking the department manager (participant) for his/her work.