JUDGE’S INSTRUCTIONS
You are to assume the role of senior vice president for WELLER INTERNATIONAL, a hospitality
company that manages and franchises several brands of hotel properties. You have asked the
director of brand management and director of guest relations (participant team) to determine
which of the WELLER INTERNATIONAL brands should be used in a new mixed-use project space
and which services the brand should provide guests.
In a suburb of a capitol city with over 450,000 people, a mixed-use project is being developed.
The project, called City Point, will offer over 80-acres of space to be used for retail, restaurants,
entertainment venues, townhomes, office space and green space. City Point hopes to be a
destination for both locals and travelers. The space will be the first of its kind in the area.
The retail and restaurant spaces have been leased by mid-price to upscale companies. The
restaurants range from a locally-owned, organic ice-cream shop to a four-star, full-service
restaurant. A small art gallery, ceramics studio and theater venue give entertainment options to
guests, as does the green space perfect for outdoor concerts and picnic settings.
WELLER INTERNATIONAL has purchased the property leading into City Point to build the only
lodging facility within five miles. Although there are other lots available surrounding City Point,
WELLER will have the only hotel in the mixed-use project. You are unsure which of the many
WELLER brands to pick for the City Point location. You have narrowed it down to three WELLER
brands and have asked the director of brand management and director of guest relations
(participant team) to choose which would be the best fit for the City Point location.
Option 1 – St. Augustine, WELLER’s luxury brand of hotels. St. Augustine offers an exceptional
level of comfort, including turn-down service, top quality linens, butler service and concierge
services. Guest rooms are priced starting at $399/night.
Option 2 – Hotel Weller, WELLER’s classic brand that offers traditional hotel services. Guest
rooms are priced starting at $189/night.
Option 3 – Periwinkle, WELLER’s boutique brand, typically targeted at Millennials, that adds
local flavor to architecture and décor, making each property unique and distinct. Untraditional
offerings like bicycles and pet goldfish are standard. Guest rooms are priced starting at
$189/night.
You want the director of brand management and director of guest relations (participant team) to
choose a WELLER brand that fits best with City Point and to suggest services and amenities the
property should offer to guests.
The director of brand management and director of guest relations (participant team) will present
recommendations to you in a meeting to take place in your office. You will begin the meeting by
greeting the director of brand management and director of guest relations (participant team) and
asking to hear about their ideas.
HTDM-19
Sample
4
After the director of brand management and director of guest relations (participant team) have
presented their ideas, you are to ask the following questions of each participant team:
1. What risks do we face when making this decision?
2. Why do you think this brand offers the least risk?
3. What was your biggest consideration in making your brand recommendation? Why?
Once the director of brand management and director of guest relations (participant team) have
answered your questions, you will conclude the meeting by thanking them for their work.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participants.

JUDGE’S INSTRUCTIONS
You are to assume the role of owner of GREAT NORTHERN CABIN RESORTS. You have asked the
marketing specialists (participant team) to develop a promotional plan to increase senior citizen
patronage.
GREAT NORTHERN CABIN RESORTS is located in the heart of the mountains, approximately onehundred miles east of a major metropolitan area. The resort is located on approximately fifteenhundred acres and features a variety of accommodation options ranging from simple, onebedroom cabins to luxurious, premium chalets. The facility offers guest accommodations that
include golf, racquetball, tennis, exercise rooms, hiking/jogging trails, indoor/outdoor swimming
pools, and full-service dining facilities.
Senior citizen patronage has drastically declined during the past two seasons, which has
accounted for a 12 percent drop in profits. You want to regain the senior citizen market and are
requesting that the marketing specialists (participant team) develop a promotional plan that will
focus on services and activities that will meet the needs and wants of retired consumers.
The marketing specialists (participant team) should consider the following when developing the
promotional plan:
• Target markets
• Market segmentation
• Types of social events
• Special services
• Recreational activities
• Cuisine
• Internet marketing
• Pricing
The marketing specialists (participant team) will present their plan to you in a meeting to take
place in your office. You will begin the meeting by greeting the marketing specialists
(participant team) and asking to hear about their ideas.
After the marketing specialists (participant team) have presented their promotional plan, you are
to ask the following questions of each participant team:
1. What other services could be offered to senior citizens?
2. How will additional staff requirements be determined?
3. How does publicity differ from promotion?
Once the marketing specialists (participant team) have answered your questions, you will
conclude the meeting by thanking them for their work.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participants.
HTDM-11
 State Event
4
JUDGING THE PRESENTATION
Team members, assuming the role of a management team for the business represented, will analyze a case
situation related to the chosen occupational area. The team will make decisions regarding the situation,
and then make an oral presentation to the judge. The role of the judge is that of an executive for the
business.
Participants will be evaluated according to the Evaluation Form.
Please place the name and identification number label on the Scantron sheet (unless it has already been
done for you).
Participants will have a 30-minute preparation period and may make notes to use during the role-play.
During the first 10 minutes of the presentation (after introductions), the team will present their analysis,
their decisions and the rationale behind the decisions. Allow the teams to complete this portion without
interruption, unless you are asked to respond.
During the next 5 minutes, you may ask questions of the team to determine their understanding of the
situation presented. Each member of each team should respond to at least one question. To ensure
fairness, you must ask each team the same questions. After asking the standard questions, you may ask
other questions for clarification specific to the current team.
After the questioning period, please thank the team and state that they will be notified of your decision
soon. Then complete the Evaluation Form, making sure to record a score for all categories. The maximum
score for the evaluation is 100 points. The presentation will be weighted at twice (2 times) the value of the
exam scores.
A maximum score of “Exceeds Expectations” in any category means that, in your opinion, the
information is presented effectively and creatively; nothing more could be expected of an employee.
A “Meets Expectations” rating means that the information is present well. Though there may be a few
minor problems or omissions, they are not significant. Creativity, however, is not shown to any great
degree. A combined total score of 70 or better on the written and presentation sections will earn the
participant team DECA’s Certificate of Excellence at the international conference.
A “Below Expectations” score means that the information presented does not meet minimum standards of
acceptability.
A “Little/No Value” score means either that some major flaw has been noted that damages the
effectiveness of the presentation (this may be a major omission, a serious misstatement or any other major
flaw) or that the information presented is of no value (does not help the presentation at all).
We hope you are impressed by the quality of the work of these potential managers. If you have any
suggestions for improving the event, please mention them to your series director.
We thank you for your help. 