You (student participant) are to assume the role of a HUMAN RESOURCES ASSOCIATE at
LUXURY LINENS, a national company that sells high end sheets, towels, and blankets. LUXURY
LINENS has both brick and mortar stores in major cities and an online presence with an active
customer base that interacts via emails and social media.
Recently, several employees have been using their work-provided email address to compose and
send various non-work related emails. In particular, the following types of emails have been sent
from LUXURY LINENS email accounts: controversial memes, politically motivated essays, and
confidential information about current and previous employees. In addition to the emails, it has
been reported that several employees have been using their personal (not company) social media
accounts to vent their frustrations about the company and customers.
You have been asked by the owner, Mr./Ms. Olson (judge), to develop a company-wide marketing
communications plan to address the inappropriate use of company email and the effects that
negative social media can have on a company. In particular, the owner would like you to:
Clearly communicate to the employees the ethical responsibility that each employee has to the
company while using email and social media.
Co-worker reporting policy, as well as disciplinary steps that will be taken for repeat offenders.
Determine the channel of communication that you will use to share the communications plan with
employees.
You will present your marketing communications plan to the owner, Mr./Ms. Olson in his/her
office. He/she will begin by greeting you and asking to hear your ideas. After you have presented
your marketing communications plan and have answered Mr./Ms. Olson’s questions, he/she will
conclude the meeting by thanking you for your work.

You are to assume the role of a SPORTS MARKETING SPECIALIST at BLUE CITY BLUE
JAYS, a minor league baseball team that is quite popular in your local community. During the
previous season, six people suffered minor injuries from being hit by foul balls. The main reason
as to why the fans were hit was because they were using their cell phones rather than paying
attention to the game.
There are two ways that the Blue City Blue Jays currently communicate the dangers of foul balls
and bats:
 Announcement at the beginning of each baseball game
 Signage in the outfield (1st and 3rd baseline)
The general manager (judge), Mr./Ms. Gorm has asked you to design a marketing communication
plan to educate fans about the dangers posed by batted balls and bats entering the stands, and the
need to pay attention to the action on the field during each at-bat. The general manager (judge)
would like to encourage fans to be a part of the marketing communications plan using video via
social media. You have been tasked with the following:
 Design a marketing communications plan that incorporates the Blue Jay’s name
 Identify which social media platforms to use
 Identify how fan generated content will be implemented into the game day videos
You will present your marketing communications plan to the general manager, Mr./Ms. Gorm
(judge) in their office. They will begin by greeting you and asking to hear your ideas. After you
have presented your marketing communications plan and have answered Mr./Ms. Gorm’s
questions, they will conclude the meeting by thanking you for your work. 