JUDGE’S INSTRUCTIONS
DIRECTIONS, PROCEDURES AND JUDGE’S ROLE
In preparation for this event, you should review the following information with your event manager
and other judges:
1. Procedures
2. Performance Indicators
3. Event Situation
4. Judge Role-play Characterization
Participants may conduct a slightly different type of meeting and/or discussion with you
each time; however, it is important that the information you provide and the questions you
ask be uniform for every participant.
5. Judge’s Evaluation Instructions
6. Judge’s Evaluation Form
Please use a critical and consistent eye in rating each participant.
JUDGE ROLE-PLAY CHARACTERIZATION
The participant is to assume the role of a Sports Marketing Specialist for the BLUE CITY BLUE
JAYS, a minor league baseball team that is quite popular in your local community. During the
previous season, six people suffered minor injuries from being hit by foul balls. The main reason
as to why the fans were hit was because they were using their cell phones rather than paying
attention to the game.
There are two ways that the Blue City Blue Jays currently communicate the dangers of foul balls
and bats:
 Announcement at the beginning of each baseball game
 Signage in the outfield (1st and 3rd baseline)
You (judge) are Mr./Ms. Gorm, the GENERAL MANAGER of the Blue City Blue Jays. You have
asked the Sports Marketing Specialist (participant) to design a marketing communication plan to
educate fans about the dangers posed by batted balls and bats entering the stands, and the need to
pay attention to the action on the field during each at-bat. You would like to encourage fans to be
a part of the marketing communications plan using video via social media. The Sports Marketing
Specialist has been tasked with the following:
MCS-17
District Event 2
4
 Design a marketing communications plan that incorporates the Blue Jay’s name
 Identify which social media platforms to use
 Identify how fan generated content will be implemented into the game day videos
The Sports Marketing Specialist (participant) will present the marketing communications plan to
you (judge) in your office. You will begin by greeting them and asking to hear their ideas. After
the Sports Marketing Specialist has presented their plan and answered your questions, you will
conclude the meeting by thanking them for their work.
Judge Questions/Possible Solutions
During the meeting you are to ask the following questions of each participant:
1. If we are creating a marketing communications plan that encourages fans to create social
media content, how can we encourage them not to view it during the actual game?
a. Provide a warning before the video can be played on the website, create teaser
advertisements before and during the game, only show the winning videos during
the game to build fan excitement.
2. Given that foul balls will continue to occur during baseball games, how will we know if
the marketing communications campaign is effective?
a. Shares or retweets via social media, less injuries during games, better awareness
of the game.
3. How will you determine which social media platforms are most effective for reaching the
different market segments of audience, taking into account the mobile technology and
platform capabilities?
a. Use the social media platforms that the majority of our fans would use, but not limit
our videos and campaign to only one or two. Most older generations of fans are on
Facebook, younger fans are on Twitter, Instagram and Snapchat. These social
media apps are fully integrated with current mobile technology for ease of creating,
sharing, and uploading content. Live video feeds are also a new feature for Twitter
(Periscope) and Facebook Live that shows how many people are viewing, and
invites comments and “likes” during the live feed. 

JUDGE’S INSTRUCTIONS
DIRECTIONS, PROCEDURES AND JUDGE’S ROLE
In preparation for this event, you should review the following information with your event manager
and other judges:
1. Procedures
2. Performance Indicators
3. Event Situation
4. Judge Role-play Characterization
Participants may conduct a slightly different type of meeting and/or discussion with you
each time; however, it is important that the information you provide and the questions you
ask be uniform for every participant.
5. Judge’s Evaluation Instructions
6. Judge’s Evaluation Form
Please use a critical and consistent eye in rating each participant.
JUDGE ROLE-PLAY CHARACTERIZATION
The student participant is to assume the role of a Human Resources Associate at LUXURY
LINENS, a national company that sells high-end sheets, towels, and blankets. LUXURY LINENS
has both brick and mortar stores in major cities and an online presence with an active customer
base that interacts via emails and social media.
Recently, several employees have been using their work provided email address to compose and
send various non-work related emails. In particular, the following types of emails have been sent
from LUXURY LINENS email accounts: controversial memes, politically motivated essays, and
confidential information about current and previous employees. In addition to the emails, it has
been reported that several employees have been using their personal (not company) social media
accounts to vent their frustrations about the company and customers.
You are to assume the role of MR./MS. OLSON, owner of LUXURY LINENS. The student
participant has been asked by you to develop a company-wide marketing communications plan to
address the inappropriate use of company email and the effects that negative social media can have
on a company. In particular, you would like the student participant to
Clearly communicate to the employees the ethical responsibility that each employee has to the
company while using email and social media.
MCS-18
District Event 2
4
Co-worker reporting policy, as well as disciplinary steps that will be taken for repeat offenders.
Determine the channel of communication that you will use to share the communications plan with
employees.
The student participant will present the marketing communications plan to you in your office. You
will begin by greeting the student participant and asking to hear his/her ideas. After the student
participant has presented the marketing communications plan and has answered your questions,
you will conclude the meeting by thanking the student participant for his/her work.
During the course of the role-play you are to ask the following questions of each participant:
1. How can we dictate what people do on their own personal social media accounts?
a. Possible Solutions: While the social media account is personal, what the employee
writes or shares is of concern to the company, especially if it portrays a negative
connotation to our company.
2. What happens if people are unwilling to serve as whistleblowers?
a. Possible Solutions: It is tough for colleagues to want to report inappropriate
actions to a supervisor. We need to be understanding that reporting does put
employees in a bad spot due to retaliation. We need to foster trust in our employees
that if someone reports to a supervisor, their information will be confidential.
Once the participant has answered your questions, you will conclude the role-play by thanking the
participant for the work.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participant.