DIRECTIONS, PROCEDURES AND JUDGE’S ROLE
In preparation for this event, you should review the following information with your event
manager and other judges:
1. Procedures
2. Performance Indicators
3. Interview Situation
4. Judge Situation Characterization
Participants may conduct a slightly different type of meeting and/or discussion with you
each time; however, it is important that the information you provide and the questions
you ask be uniform for every participant.
5. Judge’s Evaluation Instructions
6. Judge’s Evaluation Form
Please use a critical and consistent eye in rating each participant.
JUDGE SITUATION CHARACTERIZATION
You are to assume the role of director of human resources at LUCKY CUSTOMER SERVICE, a
large customer service call center that employs over 1,000 people. The candidate (participant) is
applying for a position within the human resources department. The candidate (participant) has
submitted a résumé and has been invited in for a personal interview with you. This interview will
be used to measure the candidate’s (participant’s) knowledge and understanding of an aspect
within the human resources department. You want to make sure the candidate (participant)
understands the importance of effective communication skills.
The human resources position the candidate (participant) is applying for works with staff
members to resolve personal HR issues and interpersonal relationship issues with other staff.
You want to make sure the candidate (participant) understands the nature and importance of
effective communication skills in dealing with these issues.
The interview will take place in your office. You will begin the interview by greeting the
candidate (participant) and asking to hear the candidate’s (participant’s) knowledge and
understanding of effective communication skills. In the first part of the interview, the candidate
(participant) has been asked to explain the nature of effective communication. The candidate
(participant) must also include the additional performance indicators listed on the first page of
this event. Following the candidate’s (participant’s) explanation, you are to ask the following
questions of each participant:
1. How can you be certain an employee understands what you are communicating?
PBM-15
SAMPLE SCENARIO 2015
4
2. When is it appropriate to communicate via mass email blast rather than a one-on-one
meeting?
Once the participant has answered your questions, you will conclude the discussion by thanking
the participant for the work.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participant.
Answers will vary but should demonstrate a basic understanding of the concepts. 

DIRECTIONS, PROCEDURES AND JUDGE’S ROLE
In preparation for this event, you should review the following information with your event
manager and other judges:
1. Procedures
2. 21st Century Skills and Performance Indicators
3. Event Situation
4. Judge Situation Characterization
Participants may conduct a slightly different type of meeting and/or discussion with you
each time; however, it is important that the information you provide and the questions
you ask be uniform for every participant.
5. Judge’s Evaluation Instructions
6. Judge’s Evaluation Form
Please use a critical and consistent eye in rating each participant.
JUDGE SITUATION CHARACTERIZATION
You are to assume the role of the new receptionist at GREEN WATER TREATMENT PLANT. You
have asked the administrative manager (participant) to demonstrate positive customer relations
while answering phone calls made to the wrong office.
GREEN WATER TREATMENT PLANT processes and improves the quality of the city’s water to
make it suitable for consumption. The plant does not facilitate residents’ water service
connection, billing or repairs. If a resident needs assistance for any water-related issue, the
resident must call the CITY OF GREEN offices, located at City Hall.
Most phone calls to GREEN WATER TREATMENT PLANT are from residents that are calling to
inquire about their water bill or report a water leak. Residents mistakenly call the plant rather
than the CITY OF GREEN offices.
The administrative manager (participant) must explain to you how to demonstrate positive
customer relations to residents mistakenly calling the plant rather than the city. You need to
understand how to handle these types of calls.
The participant will explain positive customer relations to you in a role-play to take place at the
front desk. You will begin the role-play by greeting the participant and asking to hear about
customer relations.
During the course of the role-play, you are to ask the following questions of each participant:
PBM-19
Sample
4
1. Why is it important that the plant have an actual person answer the phone and not an
automated recording?
2. Are there ways GREEN WATER TREATMENT PLANT can help reduce the number of
phone calls made to the plant by mistake?
Once the administrative manager (participant) has explained and demonstrated positive customer
relations and has answered your questions, you will conclude the role-play by thanking the
administrative manager (participant) for the work.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participant.
Answers will vary but should demonstrate a basic understanding of the concepts. 