DIRECTIONS, PROCEDURES AND JUDGE’S ROLE
In preparation for this event, you should review the following information with your event
manager and other judges:
1. Procedures
2. Performance Indicators
3. Event Situation
4. Judge Situation Characterization
Participants may conduct a slightly different type of meeting and/or discussion with you
each time; however, it is important that the information you provide and the questions
you ask be uniform for every participant.
5. Judge’s Evaluation Instructions
6. Judge’s Evaluation Form
Please use a critical and consistent eye in rating each participant.
JUDGE SITUATION CHARACTERIZATION
You are to assume the role of a client meeting with a financial counselor that works with
teenagers (participant). You will be meeting to discuss a personal spending plan that will help
meet your financial goals.
You are a junior in high school and are planning on attending college after graduation. You have
a part-time job and work 15 hours each week. The job pays $10.00/hour. You also receive a
small allowance and often earn extra money babysitting. You earn approximately $700.00 each
month.
There are only two expenses that you must pay: $50.00 each month on gasoline and $80.00 each
month to contribute to the family’s automobile insurance premium. All other expenses are paid
for by your parents.
You want to begin saving money for future college expenses, but also want to have spending
money for entertainment, clothing and dining out with friends in the present. It is also important
to you to donate money to charity.
You are meeting with the financial counselor (participant) to discuss a personal spending plan
that will help meet your goals for saving, spending and sharing.
The meeting will take place in the financial counselor’s (participant’s) office. You will begin the
meeting by greeting the financial counselor (participant) and asking to hear about the personal
PFL-19
Sample
4
spending plan. After the participant has presented the information, you are to ask the following
questions of each participant:
1. What are the benefits of having a monthly budget?
2. What values am I projecting to my family and peers by developing a personal spending
plan?
Once the financial counselor (participant) has answered your questions, you will conclude the
discussion by thanking the participant for the work.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participant.

In preparation for this event, you should review the following information with your event manager and
other judges:
1. Procedures, 21st Century Skills and Performance Indicators
2. Event Situation
3. Judge Role-Play Characterization
Allow the participants to present their ideas without interruption, unless you are asked to
respond. Participants may conduct a slightly different type of meeting and/or discussion with you
each time; however, it is important that the information you provide and the questions you ask be
uniform for every participant.
4. Judge Evaluation Instructions and Judge Evaluation Form
Please use a critical and consistent eye in rating each participant.

You are to assume the role of a client of a credit counselor (participant). You are seeking advice on
personal finances.
After paying monthly needed household bills, you have $500.00 remaining for payment on credit cards
and for miscellaneous expenses. The following is a snapshot of your three credit cards:
Credit card 1 – Major credit card, limit of $10,000 with 21% interest rate
Your current balance is $9,000 with a $200.00 minimum payment due.
You pay the minimum amount due each month
Credit card 2 – Retail store credit card, limit of $5,000 with 25% interest rate
Your current balance is $4,000 with a $100.00 minimum payment due
You pay the minimum amount due each month
Credit card 3 – Retail store credit card, limit of $2,500 with 22% interest rate
Your current balance is $2,000 with a $50.00 minimum payment due
You pay $100.00 each month
After paying the monthly credit card bills, you rarely have enough money left over for miscellaneous
expenses. As a result, you charge the miscellaneous expenses on a credit card. Oftentimes the extra
charges end up being more than the payment made.
You have asked the credit counselor (participant) for advice on credit card debt. Specifically, you want
to understand excessive debt, possible consequences, and actions to take to manage or reduce the debt.
The participant will present information to you in a role-play to take place in an office. You will begin
the role-play by greeting the participant and asking to hear about his/her ideas.
During the course of the role-play, you are to ask the following questions of each participant:
Published 2020 by DECA Inc. Copyright © 2020 by DECA Inc. No part of this publication may be reproduced for resale or posted
online without written permission from the publisher. Printed in the United States of America.
4
1. How does debt affect a person’s credit score?
2. Why is a credit score important?
3. What can a person do to improve their credit score?
Once the credit counselor (participant) has presented information and has answered your questions, you
will conclude the role-play by thanking the credit counselor (participant) for the work.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participant.