DIRECTIONS, PROCEDURES AND JUDGE’S ROLE
In preparation for this event, you should review the following information with your event
manager and other judges:
1. Procedures
2. 21st Century Skills and Performance Indicators
3. Event Situation
4. Judge Situation Characterization
Participants may conduct a slightly different type of meeting and/or discussion with you
each time; however, it is important that the information you provide and the questions
you ask be uniform for every participant.
5. Judge’s Evaluation Instructions
6. Judge’s Evaluation Form
Please use a critical and consistent eye in rating each participant.
JUDGE SITUATION CHARACTERIZATION
You are to assume the role of a customer purchasing entrance admission to FANTASTIC LAND, a
large amusement park. You are upset because today’s special admission promotion is not
applicable to your party. A crew member working the entrance admission counter (participant)
will help you.
FANTASTIC LAND has several promotions throughout the year to encourage visits to the park.
The amusement park has coupons available on its mobile app, website and in local newspapers
and also participates in weekly promotions. On Tuesdays, FANTASTIC LAND has a special “Kids
Free on Tuesdays” promotion. The promotion reads that every Tuesday, kids ages 11-years-old
and under are granted free admission into the park with an adult admission.
You have purchased admission for two adults and have requested two free kids’ admissions since
it is Tuesday. When the crew member (participant) asked the ages of the two children, you
answered that one child is 5-years-old and the other is 12-years-old. The crew member
(participant) replied that the 5-year-old could gain free admission, but the 12-year-old is older
than the 11-years-old or younger rule.
You are upset that the 12-year-old is not considered a kid and must pay full admission price. The
crew member (participant) has access to a coupon that gives 50% off an adult admission and may
offer it to you, if needed. You are not aware of the coupon.
The crew member (participant) will respond to your complaint in a role-play to take place at the
admissions counter. You will begin the role-play by asking why the 12-year-old cannot receive
free admission. During the course of the role-play you are to ask the following questions of each
participant:
1. Why does your amusement park have so many promotions and coupons?
2. Why do tourist attractions have different rates for adults and children?
After the crew member (participant) has responded to your complaint and has answered your
questions, you will conclude the role-play by thanking the crew member (participant).
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participant.
Answers will vary but should demonstrate a basic understanding of the concepts. 

DIRECTIONS, PROCEDURES AND JUDGE’S ROLE
In preparation for this event, you should review the following information with your event
manager and other judges:
1. Procedures
2. 21st Century Skills and Performance Indicators
3. Event Situation
4. Judge Situation Characterization
Participants may conduct a slightly different type of meeting and/or discussion with you
each time; however, it is important that the information you provide and the questions
you ask be uniform for every participant.
5. Judge’s Evaluation Instructions
6. Judge’s Evaluation Form
Please use a critical and consistent eye in rating each participant.
JUDGE SITUATION CHARACTERIZATION
You are to assume the role of a new member of the housekeeping staff at HOTEL LUCK, an
independently owned and operated hotel located in a tourist destination. You have asked the
head of the housekeeping department (participant) to explain how and why strict employee
operations helps maintain the safety of guests, employees and the property.
HOTEL LUCK gives all housekeeping, security staff and front desk employees their own
personalized room entry key. Each key is unique to track use among the employees. The room
entry keys are able to open all guestrooms, supply rooms and can be used to access guest
records. Management can view the data and determine which employee entered which room in
the hotel and the duration of time spent in each room.
You do not understand why the hotel needs to track the rooms entered and the amount of time in
each room. You have asked the head of the department (participant) to explain how tracking an
employees’ movements in and out of rooms is considered part of operational safety, keeping
guests, employees and HOTEL LUCK safe.
The head of the housekeeping department (participant) must explain how tracking employee
movement in and out of rooms is part of operational security to you in a role-play to take place at
the hotel. You will begin the role-play by asking why tracking employee movements is needed.
During the course of the role-play you are to ask the following questions of each participant:
1. What should I do if I lose my personalized room entry key?
2. If I forget my personlalized room entry key, can I borrow another employee’s key? Why
or why not?
After the head of the housekeeping department (participant) has explained operational security
and has answered your questions, you will conclude the role-play by thanking the head of the
housekeeping department (participant).
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participant.
Answers will vary but should demonstrate a basic understanding of the concepts. 