JUDGE’S INSTRUCTIONS
DIRECTIONS, PROCEDURES AND JUDGE’S ROLE
In preparation for this event, you should review the following information with your event
manager and other judges:
1. Procedures
2. Performance Indicators
3. Event Situation
4. Judge Role-play Characterization
Participants may conduct a slightly different type of meeting and/or discussion with you
each time; however, it is important that the information you provide and the questions
you ask be uniform for every participant.
5. Judge’s Evaluation Instructions
6. Judge’s Evaluation Form
Please use a critical and consistent eye in rating each participant.
JUDGE ROLE-PLAY CHARACTERIZATION
You are to assume the role of Employee, Sam Jones at Super Subs restaurant. You were asked
by your Manager (participant) to come in early before your shift for a meeting regarding a
violation of company policy.
Super Subs is a fast food sandwich shop located on the main strip in a small Midwestern city
with a population of 8,000. The restaurant employs 4 full time and 10 part time employees, most
of which are teenagers. This is your first job and while you do not mind the work, you think you
are capable of better things, as there are few employment opportunities in a small city. You
struggle working with certain co-workers as they are extremely slow and make simple mistakes
and the whole staff gets blamed by the upset customers. Some customers are even rude to you
when things happen that are outside your control: for instance, last week a customer stormed out
because you would not accept their expired coupon from 2012. You always try to have a positive
attitude but some days the incapable co-workers and rude customers get to be too much.
You suspect the meeting today has something to do with your recent social media posts as you
heard a rumor today at school. Last week was just a stressful week with midterms coming up and
things not going right at work. You were fed up with all the hours your manager was giving you,
the rude customers, and the incompetent coworkers that just needed a chance to vent. It probably
was not the best idea to post to Facebook and Twitter, but you do not think you should be in
trouble for it since your account is private, and what you want to say to your 800 friends is just
QSRM-15
District Event 1
4
between you and your friends. How could freedom of speech be in violation of a company
policy? You remember signing a lot of paperwork when you started, but nothing that gave away
your rights to your own opinions.
The participant will explain to you the situation in a role-play to take place in his/her office. The
participant will begin the meeting by greeting you and asking you why you think he/she has
called the meeting.
During the course of the role-play you are to ask the following questions of each participant:
1. This doesn’t seem fair, how was I supposed to know that this was a violation when no
one actually told me?
Possible answers:
 Employees had to read through a handbook when they started employment and
“Sam Jones” signed off that he/she agreed to the social media policy. It might be
true that no one actually “told” SAM but it is the employees responsibility to read
through the handbook in its entirety and ask questions if needed.
2. Would you wave my consequence if I posted an apology and deleted the posts?
Possible answers:
 While it might be beneficial for your own personal brand if you deleted all
negative posts and took responsibility and apologized, it doesn’t change what we
have discussed today.
3. Am I not allowed to ever post anything about my job on social media?
Possible answers:
 As part of a background check on new hires, employers regularly check all
applicants’ social media sites. Positive posts about your employment can increase
your own brand image and make you look more desirable to hiring managers.
Once the Manager (participant) has explained the situation and has answered your questions, you
will conclude the role-play by thanking the Manager (participant) for their time.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participant.

JUDGE’S INSTRUCTIONS
DIRECTIONS, PROCEDURES AND JUDGE’S ROLE
In preparation for this event, you should review the following information with your event
manager and other judges:
1. Procedures
2. Performance Indicators
3. Event Situation
4. Judge Role-play Characterization
Participants may conduct a slightly different type of meeting and/or discussion with you
each time; however, it is important that the information you provide and the questions
you ask be uniform for every participant.
5. Judge’s Evaluation Instructions
6. Judge’s Evaluation Form
Please use a critical and consistent eye in rating each participant.
JUDGE ROLE-PLAY CHARACTERIZATION
You are to assume the role of Owner at Hometown Burger, a small fast-food chain that is
known for their burgers, fries and shakes. You have asked your General Manager (participant)
to come up with a new product line that will increase revenue and grow market share.
Hometown Burger was established 12 years ago on the foundation of cooking quality food fast.
The restaurant’s motto of “made-to-order” has left customers coming back for more and helped
launch 4 more locations. Hometown Burger is known for their burgers and fries and delicious
shakes, but has recently adapted to other growing trends such as health conscious choices and
snack sized portions. They expanded their menu to include salads, wraps, and snack meals which
are smaller portions compared to the deluxe combos.
You have asked the General Manager (participant) to come up with the next big product line that
will continue to increase revenue at the restaurants. The General Manager (participant)
mentioned the idea of expanding to breakfast, but you were hesitant at first because you would
have to expand the restaurant’s hours of operation, and it may be moving too far from what the
restaurant does best. After thinking about it for awhile, you decide that it might be a profitable
business opportunity after all, but would like to hear more details about the plan.
QSRM-15
District Event 2
4
You have requested a meeting with the General Manager (participant) and have asked him/her to
explain both the positives and negatives of offering breakfast at Hometown Burger, innovative
menu items that would differentiate from competitors, and a time frame for implementation.
The participant will present to you in a role-play to take place in your office. You will begin the
role-play by greeting the participant and asking to hear about his/her ideas.
During the course of the role-play you are to ask the following questions of each participant:
1. Who will develop the recipes and ensure product consistency?
Possible answers:
 Have each of the head cooks at all locations prepare samples and have employees
or a few regular customers do a taste-test. To ensure consistency, have training at
all 5 locations on how to prepare menu items.
2. What costs will be associated with adding a breakfast menu and will profits generated
outweigh those costs?
Possible answers:
 Main costs would be labor, but could also include electric and food costs. Will
need to closely monitor revenue and profits during breakfast hours to make sure it
profitable.
Once the General Manager (participant) has presented and has answered your questions, you will
conclude the role-play by thanking the General Manager (participant) for the work.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participant.