JUDGE’S INSTRUCTIONS
DIRECTIONS, PROCEDURES AND JUDGE’S ROLE
In preparation for this event, you should review the following information with your event manager
and other judges:
1. Procedures
2. Performance Indicators
3. Event Situation
4. Judge Role-play Characterization
Participants may conduct a slightly different type of meeting and/or discussion with you
each time; however, it is important that the information you provide and the questions you
ask be uniform for every participant.
5. Judge’s Evaluation Instructions
6. Judge’s Evaluation Form
Please use a critical and consistent eye in rating each participant.
JUDGE ROLE-PLAY CHARACTERIZATION
You are to assume the role of MR./MR. BROWN, the OWNER of THE SUMMIT, a full-service
restaurant that offers a casual dining experience. You have asked you FRONT-END MANAGER
(student) to develop a checklist for all wait staff to follow to ensure all customers receive not only
quality food but quality service.
The Summit has been serving customers since 1993. The restaurant is open daily from 4 pm – 10
pm with a dinner menu that includes appetizers, dinner entrees, various sides, desserts and a full
selection of items from the bar. There are also nightly specials, seasonal menu items and carry-out
options.
Over the last few months you have noticed more and more customers posting comments and
ratings on various social media sites regarding their recent visits at The Summit. While many of
the ratings and comments praise the menu options and food preparation, the comments about the
wait staff and service received have been increasingly negative. While you are unable to pinpoint
which servers are responsible for this customer dissatisfaction, it is certain these posts have begun
to have a negative effect on business.
RFSM-18
District Event 1
4
To combat the negative posts and encourage more positive posts you have asked the manager
(student) to develop a step-by-step checklist that all wait staff will follow when serving customers.
You asked for the checklist to:
 Be steps that new and veterans servers could easily follow
 Establish a standardized way to interact and serve all customers
 Demonstrate the customer service mindset
 Ensure customers are engaged during their entire dining experience
The student will present their ideas and checklist with you in a meeting that will take place in your
office. You will begin the meeting by greeting the manager and asking them to share what they
have developed. After the student has shared their ideas and answered your questions, you will
conclude the meeting by thanking the manager for their work.
During the course of the meeting you are to ask the following questions of each participant:
1. How will you determine if all wait staff members are using the checklist?
a. Possible Solutions: Answers can include having management track the sales
and/or tips of each member of the wait staff. (Both can be indications on how well
the customer was served.) Have the hostess and/or cashier ask informal questions
about the customer’s experience with their waiter/waitress. Ask the wait staff to
reflect on their use of the checklist.
2. How will determine if the new checklist is positively affecting business?
a. Possible Solutions: Answers could include suggestions such as surveying
customers about the service they received, continuously checking and responding
to the ratings and comments on social media.
Once the manager (participant) has presented and has answered your questions, you will conclude
the meeting by thanking the manager (participant) for the work.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participant.

JUDGE’S INSTRUCTIONS
DIRECTIONS, PROCEDURES AND JUDGE’S ROLE
In preparation for this event, you should review the following information with your event manager
and other judges:
1. Procedures
2. Performance Indicators
3. Event Situation
4. Judge Role-play Characterization
Participants may conduct a slightly different type of meeting and/or discussion with you
each time; however, it is important that the information you provide and the questions you
ask be uniform for every participant.
5. Judge’s Evaluation Instructions
6. Judge’s Evaluation Form
Please use a critical and consistent eye in rating each participant.
JUDGE ROLE-PLAY CHARACTERIZATION
You are to assume the role as Mr./Ms. Stevens, the OWNER of for THE CITY GRILL, a locallyowned restaurant in a vibrant downtown area. You have asked your manager (participant) to
develop a promotional plan to help increase sales.
In recent years the downtown business retailers association has added numerous events and
activities to increase consumer traffic. One of those events is ‘Food Truck Fridays’ where on
Friday evenings food trucks line a three-block area and consumers walk amongst the trucks to try
new foods and visit local shops.
The ‘Food Truck Fridays’ event runs from 4:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. every Friday from Memorial
Day to Labor Day. The parking locations for the food trucks are less than one block from the front
entrance of The City Grill. Since the start of ‘Food Truck Fridays,’ your business has dropped by
30% on Friday evenings, which used to be The City Grill’s biggest night of the week.
The City Grill has been open for 12 years in the same location and has become a local favorite. It
is open from 11:30 a.m. to 10:00 p.m., 7 days a week serving lunch and dinner, and the restaurant
is known for having a regular menu that features modern takes on American classic dishes,
appetizers and small desserts. There is also a full-service bar and lounge, and the chef likes to
surprise diners with a rotation of new and different specials featuring seasonal produce.
RFSM-17
District Event 2
4
As the owner of The City Grill, you have asked the manager (participant) to develop a promotional
plan to help combat the drop in revenue during ‘Food Truck Fridays.’ You would like the manager
to create different options of promotional materials and activities that can be used and seen by
those who attend or are thinking about attending ‘Food Truck Fridays.’
The manager (participant) will present his/her ideas to you in a meeting to take place at the
restaurant before opening at 11:00 a.m. You will begin the meeting by greeting the manager and
asking to hear his/her ideas. After they have shared their ideas and have answered your questions,
you will conclude the meeting by thanking them for their work.
Judge Questions/Possible Solutions:
During the course of the role-play you are to ask the following questions of each participant:
1. Of the promotional ideas that you have presented, could any be used on days other than
‘Food Truck Fridays’? If so, how?
Students’ answers will vary depending on their promotion ideas. The key is to have students
show the versatility in the promotional ideas they’ve developed and how those promotional
ideas can reach a variety of customers throughout the week.
2. Since The City Grill is competing against food trucks that are mobile and only in the
neighborhood once a week, what could we promote as competitive advantages for our
customers?
Answers may vary but could include parking available for customers, indoor & outdoor
seating, reservations available, “no lines, no waiting”, carry-out available, etc.