JUDGE’S INSTRUCTIONS
DIRECTIONS, PROCEDURES AND JUDGE’S ROLE
In preparation for this event, you should review the following information with your event manager
and other judges:
1. Procedures
2. Performance Indicators
3. Event Situation
4. Judge Role-play Characterization
Participants may conduct a slightly different type of meeting and/or discussion with you
each time; however, it is important that the information you provide and the questions you
ask be uniform for every participant.
5. Judge’s Evaluation Instructions
6. Judge’s Evaluation Form
Please use a critical and consistent eye in rating each participant.
JUDGE ROLE-PLAY CHARACTERIZATION
You are to assume the role as MR./MS. SMITH, a POTENTIAL INVESTOR for a start-up
company called, “Trendsetters.” This company demonstrates a brand new way to shop for clothes
that specifically targets men ages 18-34 who do not have time or ambition to shop for the newest
styles. Trendsetters is an online company where customers will sign up with their measurements,
style, and credit card to receive full outfits two times a month. Once a customer has signed up for
Trendsetters the company will continue to send outfits to the customers which includes free
shipping on any returns. All charges will be automatically put on the credit card used with sign
up.
Today you will be meeting with a part owner (participant) in your office to discuss business model
and need for the new company. Throughout the presentation they will discuss the following
information:
 Distinguish between economic goods and services
 Describe types of business models
 Explain the concept of competition
 Explain how organizations adapt to today’s markets
 Explain the nature of business ethics
Once finished with the presentation the part owner will try to close the sale with you.
RMS-18
District Event 1
4
During the course of the meeting you are to ask the following questions of each participant:
1. Explain the type of service you will offer to the customer of Trendsetters.
a. Possible Solution: In this model we will offer customers of Trendsetters multiple
services. The first service is choosing the right outfits for the customer and then
shipping it to their house so they never need to worry about going to a store. The
other service is having free returns on any of the merchandise sold.
2. Describe the cancellation policy if customers decide they no longer want to be subscribers
of the business.
a. Possible Solution: Cancellation policies could vary but should incorporate the
following information:
i. Logging onto the customer's account and discontinuing service
ii. Calling customer service to discontinue
iii. Should not be a long or hard process and kept as easy as possible.
Once the participant has answered your questions, you will conclude the meeting by thanking the
participant for the work.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participant

JUDGE’S INSTRUCTIONS
DIRECTIONS, PROCEDURES AND JUDGE’S ROLE
In preparation for this event, you should review the following information with your event
manager and other judges:
1. Procedures
2. Performance Indicators
3. Event Situation
4. Judge Role-play Characterization
Participants may conduct a slightly different type of meeting and/or discussion with you
each time; however, it is important that the information you provide and the questions
you ask be uniform for every participant.
5. Judge’s Evaluation Instructions
6. Judge’s Evaluation Form
Please use a critical and consistent eye in rating each participant.
JUDGE ROLE-PLAY CHARACTERIZATION
You are a high profile customer that is seeking a new jewelry set from a very exclusive jewelry
store located on 5th Avenue in New York City. This store has been in business for over 100
years selling their items to high end customers and celebrities. You will be meeting with a new
sales associate (participant) to complete a sales pitch for a set of jewelry. The items they have
selected are a pair of 2 carat diamond stud earrings, a 4 carat diamond bracelet and matching
diamond necklace.
Features of the set include:
 14 Karat White Gold Setting
 Lifetime warranty on all pieces
 Stone Type: Diamond
 Stone Shape: Round
The sales associate (participant) will complete an analysis of the product information and present
the product features and benefits to you (judge).
The sales associate (participant) will need to explain the nature and scope of the selling function
as it relates to a high end retail store. Also, they will describe the importance of having great
customer service as it relates to the component in selling relationships. The sales associate
RMS-16
District Event 2
4
(participant) will present your jewelry options based on motivational theories that impact buying
behavior. They must be sure to include different ways to use technology to make their sales pitch
come alive for the high profile customer (judge).
The sales associate (participant) will be presenting their ideas in a role-play to take place in the
meeting room at the jewelry store. You (judge) will begin the role-play by greeting the sales
associate (participant) and asking to hear their ideas. After they have presented their sales pitch,
you (judge) will ask a couple questions.
During the course of the role-play you are to ask the following questions of each participant:
1. What type of warranty will you provide on the pieces of jewelry you are offering?
a. Possible Solutions: Competitors should explain the different types of warranties
and go through a plan that justifies why they would either choose no warranty,
full warranty, or limited warranty. A full warranty is covered for an extended
amount of time for anything that happens to the product, and a limited warranty
will only cover part of the issues that could arise with the product.
2. Why do you feel motivational factors are so important in an exclusive retail setting?
a. Possible Solutions: Using motivational factors can be important because it helps
the buyer understand how important they are to your business. There are many
theories that can lead to motivational purchases, but the bottom line is to make
sure the buyer feels comfortable and happy with their purchase.
After the sales associate (participant) has answered your questions, you will conclude the role
play by thanking them for their work.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participant.