JUDGE’S INSTRUCTIONS
DIRECTIONS, PROCEDURES AND JUDGE’S ROLE
In preparation for this event, you should review the following information with your event manager
and other judges:
1. Procedures
2. Performance Indicators
3. Event Situation
4. Judge Role-play Characterization
Participants may conduct a slightly different type of meeting and/or discussion with you
each time; however, it is important that the information you provide and the questions you
ask be uniform for every participant.
5. Judge’s Evaluation Instructions
6. Judge’s Evaluation Form
Please use a critical and consistent eye in rating each participant.
JUDGE ROLE-PLAY CHARACTERIZATION
You are to assume the role of, MR./MS. FLANDERS, Tour Manager for the TMX
PROFESSIONAL BICYCLE STUNT TEAM. You have asked the Ticket Sales Manager (student
participant) of the Northwoods Country Fair for ideas to promote and distribute tickets to your
team’s “new” secondary market which is (35-60 year old) parents and grandparents. Your team
performs daily at the Northwoods Country Fair for a six-day engagement the second week in July.
Your team will be at the main grandstand which seats up to 3000 people. Tickets are needed to
see any grandstand show and are $10 for bleacher seats and $20 for the front ten rows of chairs.
The fair and your TMX group split all ticket sales 50/50 (50% for the fair and 50% for the team).
Daily attendance at the fair ranges from 8,000 to 15,000 visitors. These customers are of all ages
but the primary market for the fair is rural residence within forty miles. There are three small cities
of 25,000 to 45,000 in population located in that geographic region along with ten small towns
1000-3000 in population.
You know from past experiences your primary market (8-24 yrs. old) will fill approximately 25%
of the main grand stand at the venue. Many of this target group buys tickets to multiple shows.
You are willing to work with the Ticket Manager (student participant) on ideas for sales
promotions and ticket distribution ideas to area groups that fit your “new” secondary market of
(35-60 yrs. old). This group of customers may or may not already be customers of the fair. Due
SEM-18
District Event 1
4
to ticket prices being relatively inexpensive, you have requested to keep the marketing budget be
kept reasonably small. You have also requested sales promotions, “specials”, and public relations
activities to increase ticket sales and distribution. Also, any media used by the Ticket Manager
(student) should be focused on early July.
The Northwoods Country Fair Ticket Manager (student participant) will present their ticket
distribution and promotion ideas to you in a meeting to take place in your office. You will begin
the meeting by greeting the Ticket Manager and asking to hear their ideas and implementation
possibilities.
During the course of the role-play you are to ask the following questions of each participant:
1. Should we focus on the current fair customers or new markets? Why?
a. Possible Solutions:
 Current fair customers due to cost savings
 Current fair customers due to families and groups already at the fair
 Outside of the fair ONLY if there is a reasonable budget to back the idea
2. Are the media types you used too expensive for our limited budget?
a. Possible Solutions:
 The media we chose will target our market and we will only spend money
on the most cost efficient
 Increased ticket sales will off-set the cost of “extra” media spending.
Example: If we sell 300 additional tickets @ $10/each= $3,000 in
additional sales. Fifty targeted radio ads @$20/spot= $1,000 spent. The
student should compare sales figures to possible media costs and types
used.
3. Why would “older” customers want to attend this event?
a. Possible Solutions:
 Family or Group activities at a “discount” price
 “New and exciting” angle
 Great seats for a reasonable price
Once the participant team has answered your questions, you will conclude the meeting by thanking
the participant team for their work.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participant.

JUDGE’S INSTRUCTIONS
DIRECTIONS, PROCEDURES AND JUDGE’S ROLE
In preparation for this event, you should review the following information with your event manager
and other judges:
1. Procedures
2. Performance Indicators
3. Event Situation
4. Judge Role-play Characterization
Participants may conduct a slightly different type of meeting and/or discussion with you
each time; however, it is important that the information you provide and the questions you
ask be uniform for every participant.
5. Judge’s Evaluation Instructions
6. Judge’s Evaluation Form
Please use a critical and consistent eye in rating each participant.
JUDGE ROLE-PLAY CHARACTERIZATION
You are to assume the role of Mr./Ms. Thomas, CITY COUNCIL PRESIDENT of the city of
Manawa (population 41,000). You have come to the Park General Manager (participant) with a
request from the city council. The council members have noticed the park is heavily used during
the summer on weekdays, is rarely used on weekends, and in fall, winter, and spring the park is
very slow with activity.
Sunset Park is located in a downtown area of the city of Manawa (population 41,000) and is owned
and operated by the city. Sunset Park has:
 a five hundred seat amphitheater
 a softball field
 two sand volleyball courts
 a walking/jogging loop that is ½ mile in length
Sunset Park has free summer concerts at the Amphitheater every Thursday, a busy Farmer’s market
Wednesday and Saturday mornings (June-Oct), children’s games/sports Monday through
Thursday all summer, and Senior Citizen Yoga on Monday and Wednesday mornings (April-Oct).
 a large roofed farmer’s market (up to
sixty vendors)
 a heated/cooled pavilion with tables and
chairs that seats up to 200 people
 a large children’s playground
SEM -17
District Event 2
4
The council has decided they would like to increase revenue by renting out the facilities more
often. They have done some research with their districts and they have found that:
1) Many people did not realize all that Sunset Park had to offer
2) Few people realized they could rent the facilities for family or business group activities
One issue you are worried about is the fact two of the council member’s city districts are next to
the park. The residents in those two neighborhoods are worried if the park gets too busy the noise
and traffic will be too much for their streets to handle. You thought it would be nice to give a
special promotional deal for the residents living next to the park.
The council would like the park manager (participant) to create the following to increase interest
for the park:
 A brand/Image for Sunset Park
 Promotion ideas to get local people to rent the facilities for their family and/or business
events
The park manager (participant) will present their ideas to you in your office. You will start the
meeting by asking to hear the manager’s ideas for the park. After their ideas are presented and you
have asked your questions, you will thank them for their time.
Judge Questions/Possible Solutions:
During the course of the meeting you are to ask the following questions of all participants:
1. What will happen if we get too busy and crowded at the park?
Possible Solution: This would be a good problem to have…We would talk and/or survey
the neighbors (better/more promotional deals for them) Possibly, explain their taxes will
go down if the park can generate enough revenue
Possible Solution: Possibly some comments about crime going up because of the increase
of use. (Security related answers)
2. Why did you target the specific customers you did with your promotions?
Possible Solution: These will vary but they should involve family and local business
groups’ place/involvement in the community.