JUDGE’S INSTRUCTIONS
You are to assume the role of executive director at YOUNG CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS,
a performing arts venue located in a city of 700,000 people. You have asked the director of sales
and the director of membership (participant team) to redesign the membership program in
preparation for next season’s exciting showcase.
YOUNG CENTER permanently houses the city’s opera, symphony orchestra and the ballet. In
addition, several times during the season, traveling musicians, musicals, plays and other special
events are hosted by the venue.
YOUNG CENTER offers a membership program for arts-focused community members that often
attend performances at the venue and would like perks. Memberships are valid for one calendar
year from the time of purchase. The following is a breakdown of the three membership tiers,
price and perks:
Basic Membership: Includes a behind-the-scenes tour of the venue, access to the private
members only lounge, and 24-hour pre-sale for all events before ticket sales begin for the general
public. Cost: $150.00
Mid-Level Membership: Includes all basic membership perks, plus two parking garage vouchers,
48-hour pre-sale for all events, name in event programs, and 20% off beverages in the lounges.
Cost: $300.00
Premiere Membership: Includes all basic and mid-level membership perks, plus access to VIP
private parking lot, access to open rehearsals, private parties, and 72-hour pre-sale for all events
before ticket sales begin for the general public. Cost: $600.00
Executives at the YOUNG CENTER have received confirmation that the extremely popular
Broadway musical, Founding Fathers, will be traveling next year and YOUNG CENTER will be
one of the stops during the tour. Founding Fathers will have eight shows at YOUNG CENTER.
Founding Fathers is the most popular musical of the year, with tickets selling out in record time.
You know that once it is announced that Founding Fathers will be performed at YOUNG CENTER,
people will be desperate to purchase tickets. The only way to purchase tickets in advance of the
general public is to purchase a membership. Currently all three membership tiers allow members
to purchase tickets in advance.
You feel that there will be a huge influx of new members once Founding Fathers is announced.
In anticipation, you want the director of sales and director of membership (participant team) to
redesign the membership program. You want the director of sales and director of membership
(participant team) to adjust the prices and perks at each membership tier that will best benefit
YOUNG CENTER as well as the members.
The director of sales and director of membership (participant team) will present the new
 STDM-19
Sample
5
membership program to you in a meeting to take place in your office. You will begin the meeting
by greeting the director of sales and director of membership (participant team) and asking to hear
about their ideas.
After the director of sales and director of membership (participant team) have presented their
ideas, you are to ask the following questions of each participant team:
1. Explain how your new membership program will be marketable in future seasons if we
do not have popular traveling shows like Founding Fathers?
2. How can we encourage our newest members to attend other events besides Founding
Fathers?
Once the director of sales and the director of membership (participant team) have answered your
questions, you will conclude the meeting by thanking them for their work.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participants.

JUDGE’S INSTRUCTIONS
You are to assume the role of president of BIG TOWN FOOTBALL CLUB (BTFC), an American
professional soccer team that competes in the Major Soccer League (MSL). You have asked the
director of marketing and director of public affairs (participant team) to develop the promotion of
the team’s charity fundraiser.
BIG TOWN FOOTBALL CLUB began play in 1996 as one of the charter teams in the league. The
team has reached the MSL Cup several times, but unfortunately has never won. The team has
several players that are considered sports celebrities and has high attendance at each home game,
oftentimes reaching the 25,000 maximum capacity.
One of BTFC’s players has a mother suffering from complications from diabetes. The team as a
whole has rallied around the player and the player’s mother as she suffers from complications.
You have decided that the team will spearhead a fundraising effort for diabetes research in honor
of the player’s mother. The funds raised will go to DIABETES RESEARCH FUND. You know that
with thousands of loyal BTFC fans, the charity is sure to receive many donations.
BIG TOWN FOOTBALL CLUB partnered with CHARITY ANGEL, a crowdfunding platform that
works exclusively with fundraising efforts for charities and nonprofits. To spark interest and to
create an element of fun, the fundraiser has been set up to blend with in-game performance. The
public is able to pledge a certain dollar amount for a one-time donation or can pledge per shoton-goal by BTFC. If a person pledged $1 for every shot-on-goal, for example, and there are 76
shots-on-goal, the person will donate $76.00. In addition, BTFC has agreed to donate a portion
of all ticket sales to DIABETES RESEARCH FUND.
You are excited to begin promoting this fundraising event. You have asked the director of
marketing and director of public affairs (participant team) to develop the promotional plan that
will introduce this exciting and important fundraising event to the BTFC fans and to the public.
You want the director of marketing and director of public affairs (participant team) to include
types of promotion, communications channels and marketing strategies in their plan.
The director of marketing and director of public affairs (participant team) will present the
promotion to you in a meeting to take place in your office. You will begin the meeting by
greeting the director of marketing and director of public affairs (participant team) and asking to
hear about their ideas.
After the director of marketing and director of public affairs (participant team) have presented
their ideas, you are to ask the following questions of each participant team:
1. How can our players help promote this fundraiser?
2. What are the benefits of our organization publicly supporting a charity?
3. How long should we keep the fundraiser active?

STDM-18
Sample
4
Once the director of marketing and director of public affairs (participant team) have answered
your questions, you will conclude the meeting by thanking them for their work.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participants.