JUDGE’S INSTRUCTIONS
You are to assume the role of mayor of a city. The city’s department of economic development
has sent their economic development managers (participant team) to your office to propose the
construction of a new convention center in the downtown area.
The city you represent has a population of 500,000. The city has the tenth largest airport in the
United States and is located in a variable climate with changing seasons. Average temperature
during the summer is 78 degrees and during the winter is 30 degrees. The city is the home base
for a large, successful insurance company and a major airline. Recently the downtown has
undergone a major facelift with new hotels, restaurants and nationally recognized retailers. When
the major league baseball team built a new ballpark in the downtown area, restaurant and hotel
business increased. The economic development managers (participant team) are now ready to
propose the next phase of downtown development to you. The managers (participant team) will
propose a large convention center to attract major conventions and national conferences.
Building a large convention center is very expensive. Most convention centers are financed with
a special sales tax on services such as hotels and rental cars. Cities have formed agreements with
major corporations to help finance convention centers, and many of the convention centers are
named after the corporations that spend millions of dollars for naming rights.
The managers (participant team) will propose that a large convention center would be a perfect
compliment for the 20,000 hotel rooms in the downtown area. The managers (participant team)
must explain the economic benefits of the convention center to the city’s economy and work
force, and give suggestions for funding the project.
The managers (participant team) will present their ideas to you in a meeting to take place in your
office. You will begin the meeting by greeting the managers (participant team) and asking to
hear their proposal.
After the economic development managers (participant team) have explained their proposal you
are to ask the following questions of each participant team:
1. How can our city attract convention business during the winter?
2. Can you think of any objections citizens would have about constructing the new
convention center?
Once the economic development managers (participant team) have answered your questions, you
will conclude the meeting by thanking them for their work.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participants. 

JUDGE’S INSTRUCTIONS
You are to assume the role of senior vice president for WELLER INTERNATIONAL, a hospitality
company that manages and franchises several brands of hotel properties. You have asked the
director of brand management and director of guest relations (participant team) to determine
which of the WELLER INTERNATIONAL brands should be used in a new mixed-use project space
and which services the brand should provide guests.
In a suburb of a capitol city with over 450,000 people, a mixed-use project is being developed.
The project, called City Point, will offer over 80-acres of space to be used for retail, restaurants,
entertainment venues, townhomes, office space and green space. City Point hopes to be a
destination for both locals and travelers. The space will be the first of its kind in the area.
The retail and restaurant spaces have been leased by mid-price to upscale companies. The
restaurants range from a locally-owned, organic ice-cream shop to a four-star, full-service
restaurant. A small art gallery, ceramics studio and theater venue give entertainment options to
guests, as does the green space perfect for outdoor concerts and picnic settings.
WELLER INTERNATIONAL has purchased the property leading into City Point to build the only
lodging facility within five miles. Although there are other lots available surrounding City Point,
WELLER will have the only hotel in the mixed-use project. You are unsure which of the many
WELLER brands to pick for the City Point location. You have narrowed it down to three WELLER
brands and have asked the director of brand management and director of guest relations
(participant team) to choose which would be the best fit for the City Point location.
Option 1 – St. Augustine, WELLER’s luxury brand of hotels. St. Augustine offers an exceptional
level of comfort, including turn-down service, top quality linens, butler service and concierge
services. Guest rooms are priced starting at $399/night.
Option 2 – Hotel Weller, WELLER’s classic brand that offers traditional hotel services. Guest
rooms are priced starting at $189/night.
Option 3 – Periwinkle, WELLER’s boutique brand, typically targeted at Millennials, that adds
local flavor to architecture and décor, making each property unique and distinct. Untraditional
offerings like bicycles and pet goldfish are standard. Guest rooms are priced starting at
$189/night.
You want the director of brand management and director of guest relations (participant team) to
choose a WELLER brand that fits best with City Point and to suggest services and amenities the
property should offer to guests.
The director of brand management and director of guest relations (participant team) will present
recommendations to you in a meeting to take place in your office. You will begin the meeting by
greeting the director of brand management and director of guest relations (participant team) and
asking to hear about their ideas.
HTDM-19
Sample
4
After the director of brand management and director of guest relations (participant team) have
presented their ideas, you are to ask the following questions of each participant team:
1. What risks do we face when making this decision?
2. Why do you think this brand offers the least risk?
3. What was your biggest consideration in making your brand recommendation? Why?
Once the director of brand management and director of guest relations (participant team) have
answered your questions, you will conclude the meeting by thanking them for their work.
You are not to make any comments after the event is over except to thank the participants.