CASE STUDY SITUATION
You are to assume the role of economic development managers for a city’s department of
economic development. You will be proposing to the mayor of the city (judge) the addition of a
large convention center to the downtown area.
The city you represent has a population of 500,000. The city has the tenth largest airport in the
United States and is located in a variable climate with changing seasons. Average temperature
during the summer is 78 degrees and during the winter is 30 degrees. The city is the home base
for a large, successful insurance company and a major airline. Recently the downtown has
undergone a major facelift with new hotels, restaurants and nationally recognized retailers. When
the major league baseball team built a new ballpark in the downtown area, restaurant and hotel
business increased. You are now ready to propose the next phase of downtown development to
the mayor of the city. You must propose a large convention center to attract major conventions
and national conferences.
Building a large convention center is very expensive. Most convention centers are financed with
a special sales tax on services such as hotels and rental cars. Cities have formed agreements with
major corporations to help finance convention centers, and many of the convention centers are
named after the corporations that spend millions of dollars for naming rights.
Your team must convince the mayor (judge) that a large convention center would be a perfect
compliment for the 20,000 hotel rooms in the downtown area. You must explain the economic
benefits of the convention center to the city’s economy and work force, and give suggestions for
funding the project.
You will present your plan for a new convention center to the mayor of the city (judge) in a
meeting to be held in the mayor’s (judge’s) office. The mayor (judge) will begin the meeting by
greeting you and asking to hear your plans. After you have answered the mayor’s (judge’s)
questions, the mayor (judge) will conclude the meeting by thanking you for your work. 

You are to assume the roles of director of brand management and director of guest relations for
WELLER INTERNATIONAL, a hospitality company that manages and franchises several brands of
hotel properties. The senior vice president (judge) has asked you to determine which of the
WELLER INTERNATIONAL brands should be used in a new mixed-use project space and which
services the brand should provide guests.
In a suburb of a capitol city with over 450,000 people, a mixed-use project is being developed.
The project, called City Point, will offer over 80-acres of space to be used for retail, restaurants,
entertainment venues, townhomes, office space and green space. City Point hopes to be a
destination for both locals and travelers. The space will be the first of its kind in the area.
The retail and restaurant spaces have been leased by mid-price to upscale companies. The
restaurants range from a locally-owned, organic ice-cream shop to a four-star, full-service
restaurant. A small art gallery, ceramics studio and theater venue give entertainment options to
guests, as does the green space perfect for outdoor concerts and picnic settings.
WELLER INTERNATIONAL has purchased the property leading into City Point to build the only
lodging facility within five miles. Although there are other lots available surrounding City Point,
WELLER will have the only hotel in the mixed-use project. The senior vice president (judge) is
unsure which of the many WELLER brands to pick for the City Point location. The senior vice
president (judge) has narrowed it down to three WELLER brands and has asked your team to
choose which would be the best fit for the City Point location.
Option 1 – St. Augustine, WELLER’s luxury brand of hotels. St. Augustine offers an exceptional
level of comfort, including turn-down service, top quality linens, butler service and concierge
services. Guest rooms are priced starting at $399/night.
Option 2 – Hotel Weller, WELLER’s classic brand that offers traditional hotel services. Guest
rooms are priced starting at $189/night.
Option 3 – Periwinkle, WELLER’s boutique brand, typically targeted at Millennials, that adds
local flavor to architecture and décor, making each property unique and distinct. Untraditional
offerings like bicycles and pet goldfish are standard. Guest rooms are priced starting at
$189/night.
The senior vice president (judge) wants you to choose a WELLER brand that fits best with City
Point and to suggest services and amenities the property should offer to guests.
You will present recommendations to the senior vice president (judge) in a meeting to take place
in the senior vice president’s (judge’s) office. The senior vice president (judge) will begin the
meeting by greeting you and asking to hear your ideas. After you have presented your ideas and
have answered the senior vice president’s (judge’s) questions, the senior vice president (judge)
will conclude the meeting by thanking you for your work.